 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1998 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979 — Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-744-5 Price: US$95.00 (US$47.50 to full-time university faculty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org Internet: http://www.imf.org recycled papero ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 7,1998 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1998, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Def in i t ion of Acronyms Introduction Page ix xi 1 Afghan is tan, Islamic State of A lb an ia Algeria Ango la An t igua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Aus tra l ia Aus t r ia Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bah ra in Bang ladesh Barbados Be larus Be lg ium Be l ize Benin Bhu tan Bo l iv ia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil B runei Darussalam Bu lgar ia Bu rk ina Faso B u r u n di Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central Afr ican Repub l ic Chad Ch i le Ch ina, People's Repub l ic of Hong Kong SAR Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Repub l ic of Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Gu inea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gamb ia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Page 4 8 12 18 24 28 33 37 42 47 51 56 63 67 77 84 91 95 100 108 112 116 120 128 142 146 153 160 166 171 178 182 188 194 201 211 219 223 230 236 241 v Page 247 250 258 263 274 280 283 286 290 295 299 304 308 314 319 323 330 337 341 345 351 355 359 363 369 373 379 383 388 395 399 402 406 414 418 433 440 446 451 454 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vi CONTENTS Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Republic of Kuwa it Ky rgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, Socialist People's L i thuan ia Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Ma lawi Malaysia Ma ld ives Mali Ma l ta Marshall Islands Maur i tan ia Mau r i t ius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Nam ib ia Nepal Ne ther lands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pak is tan Panama Papua New Gu inea Paraguay Page 466 470 475 479 485 489 491 500 504 508 512 516 520 525 528 533 537 540 545 550 556 564 567 573 579 582 588 591 598 601 608 612 622 627 633 641 646 649 653 656 660 667 673 676 679 687 690 695 Peru Ph i l ipp ines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Afr ica Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaz i land Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzan ia Tha i land Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tun is ia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukra ine Un i ted Arab Emirates Un i ted K ingdom Un i ted States U ruguay Uzbekistan Page 699 702 711 720 724 727 733 740 745 749 754 759 765 769 774 778 784 788 793 797 803 810 816 821 831 836 843 848 855 861 864 867 875 880 885 893 901 904 908 918 924 929 933 940 944 948 953 958 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Vanua tu Venezuela V ie tnam Yemen, Republic of Zambia Z imbabwe CONTENTS Page 964 967 971 976 979 982 Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Appendix II: Country Table Matrix V ll Page 992 999 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by in terna t ional law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for wh ich statistical data are ma in ta ined and provided in terna t iona l ly on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been pub l ished an- nua l ly by the IMF since 1950. It draws on informa t ion available to the IMF from a number of sources, inc lud ing that provided in the course of off ic ial visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation w i th national authorities. This report presents the informa t ion in tabu lar format and expands the coverage on the regulations on capital transactions. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Exchange Affa irs Department by a staff team di- rected by R. Barry Johnston and coordinated by Alexander Kyei, comprising V irg i l io A. Sandoval, Fabienne Piccinni, and Ahang Edalatpour. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), w i th assistance from staff members of the IMF's six area departments, together w i th staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre and Martha Bon i l la of the External Rela- tions Department, and was produced by Ms. Piccinni and the IMF Graphics Section. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Note: This l ist does not inc lude acronyms of pure ly na t ional in s t i tu t ions mentioned in the coun t ry chapters. DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS ACP ACU AFTA AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN ATC BCEAO BEAC BLEU CACM CAP CARICOM CEEAC CEFTA CEPGL CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA COCOM COMESA CPI ECCB ECLAC ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEA EFTA EMS ERM EU FSU GATT GCC GSP HCDCS IBEC A t l an t i c, Caribbean, and Pacific countries As ian Clearing Un ion (integrated by Bang ladesh, Ind ia, the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran, My anm a r, Nepa l, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka) ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) As ian monetary u n it Au s t ra l ia -New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations (integrated by Brune i, Indonesia, Malaysia, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, and Tha i land) Agreement of Textiles and C lo th ing Central Bank of West Afr ican States (Banque centrale des etats de 1'Afr ique de 1'ouest). (The West Afr ican States are Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Guinea-Bissau, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.) Bank of Central Afr ican States (Banque des etats de 1 'A f r ique centrale). (The Central African States are Cameroon, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Repub l ic of Congo, Equa tor ial Gu inea, and Gabon.) Be lg ian -Luxembou rg Economic Un ion Central Amer ican Common Market (integrated by Costa R ica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua) Common ag r icu l tu ral policy (of the EU) Caribbean Common Market (integrated by An t igua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nev is, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago) Economic C omm u n i ty of Central Afr ican States Central European free trade area Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries Common effec t ive preferential ta r i ff of the ASEAN free trade zone Common external tariff Communau te f inanc ie re a f r ica ine Commonwea l th of Independent States Common mone tary area (a single exchange con trol territory compr is ing Lesotho, Nam ib ia, South Afr ica, and Swaz i land) Carribean Mu l t i la te ral Clearing Facility Counc il for M u t u al Economic Assistance (dissolved) (Bu lgar ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Mongo l ia, Poland, Rom an i a, U .S .S .R ., and V ie tnam) Coo rd ina t ing Comm i t tee for Mu l t i l a t e r al Export Controls Common market for Eastern and Southern Pacific (Angola, Bu rund i, Comoros, Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo, Er i trea, E th iop ia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Ma law i, Mau r i tan ia, Mozamb ique, Nam ib ia, Rwanda, Sudan, Swaz i land, Tanzan ia, Uganda, Zambia, and Z imbabwe) Con sumer price index Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Angu i l la, An t igua and Barbuda, Dom in ica, Grenada, Mon tserra t, St. K i t ts and Nev i s, St. Luc ia, and St. V incent and the Grenadines) Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic C omm u n i ty of West A f r i c an States (CEDEAO) (Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d ' lvo i re, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea -B i s sau, Liberia, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, N iger ia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) European Coal and Steel Commun i ty European currency u n it European economic area European Free Trade Association European monetary system Exchange rate mechan ism (of the EMS) European Un ion ( fo rme r ly European C omm u n i t y ), (integrated by Au s t r ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, F in land, France, Ge rmany, Greece, I re land, Luxembou rg, Ne the r lands, Portugal, Spa in, Sweden, and the Un i ted K ingdom) Former Soviet Un ion General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade (see WTO) Gu lf Cooperation Counc il (Cooperation Counc il for the A rab States of the Gu l f) (Bah ra in, Oman, Qatar, Saudi A rab ia, and the Un i ted A rab Em ira tes) Generalized system of preferences Ha rmon ized commod i ty descr ip t ion and coding system In te rna t ional Bank for Economic Cooperation XI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution xii DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS LAIA OGL OPEC PTA SACU SADC SDR SIBOR SPARTECA Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela) LC Letter of credit LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) MFA Mu l t i f iber Arrangement MFN Most favored nation MTN Multilateral trade negotiations (the Uruguay Round) NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECS Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Preferential trade area for Eastern and Southern African states Southern Afr ican Customs Un ion (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Nam ib ia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Commun i ty (integrated by Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Maur i t ius, Mozambique, Nam ib ia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special d raw ing rights Singapore interbank offered rate South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nau ru, New Zealand, N iue, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Union of account of the PTA Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union United Na t ions Na t ional Un ion for the Total Independence of Angola Value-added tax West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty (CEAO) (dissolved) West A f r ican Economic and Monetary Un ion (former ly WAMU, integrated by Ben in, Bu rk ina Faso, Cote d' lvo ire, Gu inea-B issau, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) World Trade Organization (supersedes GATT) UAPTA UDEAC UN UNITA VAT WAEC WAEMU WAMA WTO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The report provides a detailed description of the ex- change arrangements and exchange restrictions of ind iv idual member countries, as well as Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has ac- cepted the IMF Articles of Agreement.1 In general, the de- scription relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1997, but in appropriate cases, reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1998. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 1997 and early 1998. The report is presented in a tabular format that en- hances transparency and the un i fo rm i ty of treatment of the informa t ion among countries and includes the coverage on the regulatory framework for capital movements. The infor- mation is drawn from a new exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database established by the IMF. The fo l low ing country tables present an abstract of the relevant information available to the IMF. The table on Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frame- works for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries (Append ix I) provides an overview of the charac- teristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. A country table matrix (Appendix II) provides a l is t ing of the possible entries in this database. In cases where the informa t ion in an entire section is not ava i lab le at the t ime of pub l ica t ion, th is is noted by "n.a." When informa t ion in a particular category w i th in a section is not available at the time of pub l ica t ion, the category is not inc luded in the table. When informa t ion is ava i lab le on all but a par t icu lar item or items w i th in a category, these are displayed w i th a note to that effect (i.e., n.a.). The tabu lar presentation is organized as fo l lows: Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement indicates whe ther the member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement or whe ther the country con t inues to avail itself of the t rans i t ional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. Exchange Arrangement provides the description of the exchange arrangement that a member country has fu rn ished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(0), inc lud ing the exchange rate structure (i.e., whe ther there are one, two, or It excludes Palau, wh ich accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement on December 16, 1997, and for wh ich informa- t ion on the exchange and trade system is not yet ava i lab le. 1 multiple exchange rates); the classification of the exchange arrangement on the basis of how the exchange rate is deter- mined in the main market when there is more than one mar- ket; the existence of exchange taxes or subsidies; and the features of forward exchange markets, if any. Official cover- age of forward operations refers to the case where an official entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the ex- change risk of a certain foreign exchange transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts provides a description, where appropriate, of the prescription of cur- rency requirements, the nature of payment arrangements, the administration of exchange control, international security restrictions, the nature of payments arrears, and controls on the trading of gold and domestic and foreign banknotes. Un- der this section, Prescription of currency requirements de- scribes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and the method of settlement for transactions w i th other countries. When a country has concluded payment agreements with other countries, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to a prescription of the currency for speci- fied categories of payments to and from the countries con- cerned. Administration of control gives some indication of the authorities' responsibility for policy and the administra- tion of exchange controls, and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for working purposes. International security restrictions identifies restrictions on payments and transfers for international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) establishes the obligation of members to no t i fy the IMF before impos ing such restrictions, or, if circumstances preclude advance noti- fication, members should no t ify the IMF as promptly as possible, but ordinarily no later than 30 days after imposing the restrictions. Resident Accounts and Nonresident Accounts describe the manner in wh ich the coun try treats accounts, if any, that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign cur- rency, locally or abroad, by resident or nonresident account holders, and the facilities and l im i ta t ions attached to such accounts. When there are more than one type of resi- dent/nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. Imports and Import Payments describes the na ture and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports and in- cludes information on the existence of a foreign exchange budget (i.e., a priori allocation of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usua l ly on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods, sometimes ind ica t ing amoun ts for specified registered importers); on f inanc ing requirements for imports (m in imum f inanc ing and advance payment re- quirements, and the existence of advance deposits); and on documentation requirements for the release of foreign ex- change for the payment of imports, such as the obligation to domicile the transactions w i th a specified f inanc ial ins t i tu- tion, a preshipment inspection aimed at establishing the ve- racity of the import transaction in terms of vo lume, qua l i ty, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION and price, the ob l iga t ion to pay by means of a letter of credit, and the need to subm it an import license to ob ta in the for- eign exchange. Import licenses and other nontariff measures uses the fo l low ing terms to describe the licensing system, if any: (1) Positive list refers to a list in wh ich goods that can be imported are listed; (2) Negative list refers to a list in wh ich goods whose importation is restricted are listed; (3) Open general licenses indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other in terna t ional transac t ions are exempt from the restrictive app l ica t ion of l icens ing requ iremen ts; (4) Licenses with quotas refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific l im it is imposed on the amount to be imported; and (5) Other nontariff measures may inc lude the p roh ib i t ion to import a certain good or all goods from a certain coun try. Also, th is section provides a brief description of the import tax/tariff system, spec i fy ing whe ther these revenues are collected through the exchange system, and p rov id ing in fo rma t ion on whe ther state monopolies for the importation of certain goods exist. Exports and Export Proceeds iden t i f ies restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as we ll as regu la t ions on exports, such as f in an c ing and documen ta t ion requ iremen ts ( in c lud ing letters of credit, the prov is ion of guarantees, dom ic i l ia t ion, p re sh ipment inspec t ion, l icens ing requ ire- ments, and taxes lev ied — in pa r t icu lar th rough the exchange system —on exports). Repatriation requirements refers to the ob l iga t ion of exporters to b r ing in to the coun t ry export pro- ceeds e i ther by se l l ing them in the foreign exchange market or depositing them in au thor ized accounts. Surrender re- quirements refers to regu la t ions requ i r ing the rec ip ient of export proceeds to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange dealers au thor ized for th is purpose. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers describes the procedures for effec t ing paymen ts abroad for current transactions in inv i s ib l es w i th reference to pr ior approval requ i remen ts, the existence of quan t i ta t ive and ind ica t ive l im i ts, and/or bona f ide tests. Detailed in fo r- mation on the most common categories of t ransac t ions is provided when regu la t ions d i f fer for the var ious categories. Indicative limits es tab l ishes m a x im um amoun ts up to wh ich the purchase of fore ign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the purpose of the transac t ion, m a i n ly for statistical pur- poses. Amoun ts above those l im i ts are granted if the bona f ide na tu re of the transac t ion is established by the presenta- t ion of appropriate documen ta t ion. Bona f ide tests also may be app l ied for transactions for wh i ch quan t i ta t ive l im i ts have not been es tab l ished. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers g ives a ll regu la t ions govern ing exchange receipts derived from transac t ions in inv i s ib l e s, as we ll as a descrip- tion of any l im i ta t ions on the ir conversion in to domestic currency and the use of those receipts. The concepts of repa- t r ia t ion and su r render requ i remen ts are s im i l ar to those ap- p l ied to export proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds refers m a i n ly to the l im i t a t ions imposed on the use of receipts pre- v ious ly deposited in certain bank accounts. Capital Transactions describes regu la t ions in f lu en c ing capital movements. The concepts of controls and capital transactions are interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on cap i tal movements inc lude proh ib i t ions; need for prior approval, au thor iza t ion, and no t i f ica t ion; m u l t i p le currency practices; d iscr im ina tory taxes; and reserve requ iremen ts or interest pena l t ies imposed by the authorities that regulate the con- c lus ion or execution of transactions or transfers w i th respect to both inward and ou tward capital f lows or the ho ld ing of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regu la t ions wou ld app ly to receipts as well as paymen ts and to actions in i t ia ted by nonres iden ts and resi- dents. Moreover, because of the ir close association w i th capital movements, in fo rma t ion is also provided on local f in an c i al operations conducted in foreign currency. Under capital transactions, Capital and money market instruments refers to the pub l ic o f fe r ing or pr iva te p lacement on a pr imary market or l i s t ing on a secondary market. Capi- tal market securities refers to shares and other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture, and bonds and other securities w i th an original ma tu r i ty of over one year. Money market instru- ments refers to securities w i th an original ma tu r i ty of one year or less and inc ludes short-term ins t rumen ts, such as treasury b i l l s, certificates of deposit, and b i l ls of exchange. Collective investment securities inc ludes share certifi- cates and registry entries or other evidence of investor inter- est in an in s t i tu t ion for collective inves tmen t, such as mu tu al fund s, and u n it and inve s tment trusts. Derivatives and other instruments refers to operations in other negotiable ins t rumen ts and nonsecur i t ized c la ims not covered under the above subsections. These may inc lude operations in r igh ts; warrants; f in an c i al options and fu tu res; secondary market operations in other f inanc ial claims ( in c lud ing sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable ins t rumen ts or ig ina t ing as loans, receiv- ables, and discounted b i l ls of trade); forward operations ( in c lud ing those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, deb t /equ i ty, equity/debt, foreign currency, as we ll as swaps of any of the ins t rumen ts listed above). Credit operations is subd iv ided in to commercial cred- its covering operations directly l inked w i th in terna t ional trade transactions or w i th the rendering of in terna t ional services; financial credits, wh ich are credits other than commercial credits; guarantees and sureties, in c lud ing se- cur i t ies pledged for payment or performance of a contract, such as warran ts or avals, performance bonds, and stand-by letters of credit; and financial backup facilities, wh i ch covers credit fac i l i t ies used as a guaran tee for independent f inanc ial operations. Direct investment refers to inves tment for the purpose of es tab l ish ing las t ing economic relations, essen t ia l ly for the purpose of p roduc ing goods and services, and, in par t icu lar, inves tmen ts that a l low inves tor par t ic ipa t ion in their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION _ 3_ management. It includes the creation or extension of a wholly owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the ac- quisition of fu ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective influence over the opera- tions of this enterprise. Liquidation of direct investment re- fers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains, of a direct investment as defined above. Real estate transactions refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct investment. It would include, for example, investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Personal capital movements covers transfers initiated on behalf of private persons and intended to benefit another private person. It includes transactions involving property to which a promise of a return to the owner with payments of interest is attached (loans, settlements of debt in their country of origin by immigrants), or transfers free of charge to the beneficiary (gifts and endowments, loans, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants' assets). Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary and prudential controls, including reserve requirements; liquid asset requirements; interest rate regulations; credit controls; investment regula- tions; and open foreign exchange position limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors describes controls specific to institutions, such as insurance companies and pension funds, and may include, for example, controls on the propor- tion of the institutions' portfolios that may be held in local or foreign assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws refers to additional regulations on capital movements im- posed by those laws, such as restrictions on the listing of foreign securities on local security markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghan i. Two types of Af- ghanis are in circulation; that wh ich circulates in the north is illegal in Kabul and other areas under Taliban control. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the central bank, maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The off ic ial rate is applied to no more than 10% of con- vertible currency transactions, inc lud ing a few transactions of the central government (mainly debt-service payments) and certain foreign currency income earned in the Islamic State of Afghan is tan. Almost all other off ic ial transactions are conducted at a commercial rate set by the government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. In the nor th, the free market exchange rate is about Af 75,000 per $1, and in other areas, it is about Af 25,000 per $1. The exchange rate applied to transac- tions of in terna t ional organizations is set at 80% of the level of the commercial ex- change rate. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the floating commercial market rate. The DAB posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Ind ian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Forward exchange market There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official market or the commercial bank ing sector. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich the Islamic State of A fghan i s tan m a i n t a i ns bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance w i th the procedures set for th in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bi- lateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. The Islamic State of A fghan is tan ma in ta ins b i la teral paymen ts agreements w i th Bu l- garia, China, the Czech Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Russ ia, and the Slovak Repub l ic. Some of these have been inac t ive for several years, and others are being phased ou t. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No restrictions apply to transac t ions in the free exchange market. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 5 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from the DAB and the Ministry of Fi- nance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins, n.a. Travelers may bring in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers entering the Islamic State of Afghanistan are required to spend a m in imum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above m in imum conversion requirement. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit An annual import program drawn up by the M in is try of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circumstances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. n.a. n.a. Payments for imports through the banking system to countries w i th wh ich the Islamic State of A fghan is tan has payments agreements may usually be made only under LCs. Payments to other countries may be made under LCs, against bills for collection, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods of at least an equ iva lent value to the payment made through the bank ing system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge m in imum import deposits w i th banks when they open LCs. The deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. va lue of imports, are 20% for essential products and range from 30% to 60% for other products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports are not subject to licenses, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Most b i la teral agreements, however, specify quan t i t ies (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. The impor ta t ion of certain d rugs, l iquor, a rms, and amm u n i t i on is p roh ib i ted on grounds of pub l ic policy or for secur i ty reasons; in some ins tances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The impor ta t ion of a few textiles and selected nonessen t ial consumer goods is also proh ib i ted. n.a. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on most impo r ts, but ta r i ff rates on most con- sumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from b i la teral accounts may be retained in b i la teral c lear ing do l lar accounts w i th the DAB. These retained proceeds may e i ther be used d irec t ly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that par t icu lar bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trad ing in conver t ib le currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for three, s ix, or twe lve mon ths, depend ing on the coun try of destina- t ion. Dur ing the re levant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. A l te rna t ive ly, at the end of the relevant ho ld ing period l im i t, foreign exchange ho ld ings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account w i th a bank in the Islamic State of A fghan is tan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from exports of raisins, fresh f ru i t s, an imal casings, skins, licorice roots, medicinal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial ex- change rate. Export transac t ions mu st be registered. The exportation of op ium and museum pieces is proh ib i ted. Otherwise, control is exercised on ly over exports to b i la te ral agreement countries. Yes. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign exchange for most p r iva te purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. There are no controls on interest paymen ts and transfers of prof i ts and d iv idends. In- fo rma t ion on all other paymen ts or transfers, except for those listed be low, was not ava i lab le at time of pub l ica t ion. The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $ 1 and 1 % of hard cu r rency for perm i ts that approve the exportation of convertible currency by au thor ized t rave le rs. Yes. The l im it for tour ist travel is $1,000, except for p r iva te travel to Ind ia, for wh ich the l im it is the equ iva lent of $700. The l im it for bus iness travel is $15,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 7 Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits For medical treatment, the central bank levies a commission of Af 0.75 per $1. Yes. No rma l ly, the DAB grants $2,500 for medical treatment. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Foreign employees working in the A fghan pub l ic and private sectors mu st convert 60% of the ir foreign currency salaries into A fghan is at the o f f ic ial rate. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment n.a. n.a. Capital Transactions Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Inves tment Committee. The law stipulates that foreign investment in the Islamic State of A fghan is tan can take place only through jo int ventures, w i th foreign participation not exceeding 49%, and that an inves tment approved by the Inves tment Committee shall require no fu r ther license in order to operate in the Islamic State of A fghan is tan. The Foreign and Do- mestic Private Inves tment Law No. 1353 (1974) includes the fo l low ing provisions: (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning w i th the date of the f irst sale of products resulting from the new inves tmen t; (2) exemption from import du t ies on essential imports (ma in ly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the f irst d is tr ibu t ion of d iv idends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among the pro- hibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law, as long as the prices are not more than 15% higher than those of foreign suppliers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Capital may be repatriated after f ive years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of the total registered capital. Changes During 1995-1997 The IMF has not received from the authorities the informa t ion required for a descrip- tion of the exchange and trade system since 1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the Albanian lek. In special cases, and w i th prior approval from the Bank of A lban ia (BOA), foreign exchange may serve as a means of payment. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent f loa t ing The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supp ly and demand for for- eign exchange. The BOA calculates and announces the daily average exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 22 other major currencies. No margins are set between buy ing and selling rates for the off ic ial exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.2% to 2%, depending on the amoun t, for cashing trave ler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payment for all merchandise trade is made in convertible currencies. All transactions under bilateral payment agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pending the outcome of negotiations. A lban ia ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements in nonconvertible currencies w i th Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and V ie tnam. A lban ia also ma in ta ins b i la teral payment agreements in convertible currencies w i th Algeria, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ro- man ia, Russ ia, the Slovak Repub l ic, Turkey, V ie tnam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). The BOA is vested w i th the powers to administer exchange controls. The BOA may (1) au thor ize foreign exchange operations and allow securities banks to conduct for- eign exchange operations; (2) define the l im i ts of their ac t iv i t ies; and (3) supervise foreign exchange operations to prevent any par t ic ipant from dom ina t ing the market. It monitors licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus and dealers to ensure that the ir operations comply w i th foreign exchange regulations. There is a reporting requirement on banks and exchange dealers for transac t ions above $15,000 or its equ iv a l ent at the exchange rate p reva i l ing on the date the transaction is effected. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official A lban ia has arrears on debts w i th Ch ina, Greece, Turkey, and w i th a numb er of com- mercial creditors. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 9 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Na tural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in banknotes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign visitors may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount brought in to the country. A lban ian na tu ral or ju r id ical persons are not allowed to export amoun ts larger than $15,000 or its equ iva len t. Na tural and ju r id ical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic banknotes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Natural and jur id ical persons are allowed to import foreign currency up to $15,000 or its equivalent in any other currency. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Residents, na tural or ju r id ical persons, may open and ma in ta in foreign-currency- denominated accounts w i th banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions abroad only w i th the prior approval of the BOA. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. For imports equal to or larger than $5,000 or its equ iva len t, the fo l low ing documents must be subm i t ted: (1) an application for carrying out the transaction as well as a dec- laration specifying in detail the na ture of the transaction; (2) a contract and an invoice (or a pro forma invoice) issued by the na tural or ju r id ical person supp ly ing the goods; and (3) a declaration issued by the natural or jur id ical person w ish ing to carry out the transaction w i th the bank that the unde r ly ing document has not been used to support previous transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses ALBANIA LCs should be used for the payment of imports equal to or in excess of $200,000 or its equivalent. Licenses are required for payments of imports equal to or larger than $5,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are f ive tar iff rates: zero, 5%, 10%, 20%, and 30% that are applied to the c .i .f. value. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All private and pub l ic companies or i n d i v i d u a ls operating in the export sector are required to repatriate the ir foreign exchange receipts. No. No. No. There are export bans on unprocessed wood and scrap metal. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts, but suppo r t ing documents for transac t ions exceeding $5,000 are required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market ins t rumen ts Same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On collective inves tment securities Same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. ALBANIA 11 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Transactions in these ins t rumen ts are subject to the control of the A lban ian Securities Commission. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks may not, w i thout prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except banks and other f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions. By residents to nonresidents Yes. F inanc ial cred i ts Same regu la t ions apply as for commercial credits. By residents to nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Ou tward direct inves tmen ts are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to prior approval of the BOA. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts The controls relate on ly to the purchase of land. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents G i f ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Inves tment regulations Yes. Yes. Yes. Commerc ial banks may not, w i thout prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to non- residents, except to banks and other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 10% of the banks' capital for a single currency and 20% for all currencies. Charges During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1997. Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing The external va lue of the d inar is set at the interbank foreign exchange market. No margin l im i ts are imposed on buy ing and selling exchange rates in the in terbank for- eign exchange market. However, a marg in of DA 0.017 has been established between the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria (BOA) for the d inar against the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may provide fo rwa rd cover to residents, but th is has not taken place. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements C lea r ing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Se t t lemen ts w i th countries w i th wh ich no payment agreements are in force are made in conver t ib le currencies. Paymen ts under foreign supp ly contracts may be made in e i ther the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the coun try of or ig in of the merchandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in dollars through special clearing accounts ma in ta ined at the central banks of the re- spective countries. Specified noncommercial settlements w i th Morocco and Tunisia are made through a Moroccan d i rham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tun is ian d inar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general jur isd ic t ion over exchange controls. Au tho r i ty for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to seven commercial banks and the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con t ro ls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on ex te rnal trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num i sm a t ic purposes. Unworked gold for indus t r ial and professional use is distributed by the Agence na- tionale pour la d is tr ibu t ion et la t rans fo rma t ion de 1'or et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR); th is agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and d is tr ibu te any other precious metals. AGENOR is au thor ized to impo rt and export any precious metals, inc lud ing gold. Gold used by dentists and go ldsm i ths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other pre- cious metals are inc luded on the l ist of items importable by concessionaires. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically ALGERIA 13 Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may reexport any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Resident travelers can export foreign currency w i thd r awn from the ir foreign currency accounts up to the equ iva lent of F 50,000 a t r ip for an u n l im i t ed n um b er of tr ips a year. Resident travelers may re import up to DA 200 a person. Nonres iden ts are not pe rm i t- ted to b r ing in A lger ian d inar bankno tes. There are no restrictions on the impo r ta t ion of foreign bankno tes, but res iden ts and nonresidents must declare them when they enter A lger ia. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. These accounts may be freely credited w i th book transfers of conve r t ib le currencies from abroad u s ing e i ther postal or bank ing fac i l i t ies, imported conve r t ib le fore ign currencies that were declared at the t ime of the account ho lde r 's en try in to the coun t ry, and domestic bank - to -bank book transfers between accounts he ld by i n d i v i d u a l s. These accounts may be debited freely for book t rans fe rs abroad but on ly th rough the bank ing system. They may also be debited for purchases of d in a r s, for book t rans fe rs in d inars, and for purchases of conver t ib le foreign currencies to be p h y s i c a l ly exported by the account holder. The interest rate payab le on deposits in these accoun ts is f ixed quar ter ly by the BOA. Economic en t i t ies are also allowed to open fore ign currency accounts for rece iv ing and mak ing fore ign cu r rency t rans fe rs, in c lud ing the retained p ropo r t ion of th e ir ex- port proceeds. They may t rans fer f u n ds in these accounts to o ther fore ign cu r rency accounts or use them to make paymen ts in Algeria or to make fore ign cu r rency pay- men ts for goods and services pe r ta in ing to the ir bus iness. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are perm i t ted in l im i ted cases, such as for embassies. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. These accounts may be credited w i th fore ign cu r rency bankno tes and o ther means of payment denom ina ted in fore ign cu r rency, as we ll as o ther d in a r -d enom in a t ed f u n ds that meet a ll requ i remen ts for t rans fe rs abroad. They may be debited w i t h o ut res tr ic- t ions to make transfers abroad, to export th rough w i thd r aw a ls of fore ign bankno te s, and to make d inar paymen ts in A lger ia. These accoun ts pay in te rest and may not show a net debit pos i t ion. F inal depar ture accounts may be opened, w i t h o ut p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n, in the name of any n a tu r al person res id ing in A lge r ia who is not of A lge r ian n a t i o n a l i t y, and who in tends to leave A lger ia to re tu rn to his or her coun t ry of o r ig in. These accoun ts may be credited w i th an amount equ iv a l ent to the ho ld ings as of October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; w i th the proceeds f rom sales of real estate by the account ho lder, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ALGERIA provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; w i th the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and w i th any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited w i thout prior approval for certain paymen ts in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Ou tward transfers require ind iv idual approval from the BOA. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Ind iv idu al suspense accounts may be opened w i thout au thor iza t ion and may be cred- ited w i th payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement Advance impo rt deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Paymen ts for impor ts of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made f rom foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import f in an c ing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. Except otherwise indicated by the BOA, down paymen ts for imports may not exceed 15% of the total va lue of imports. When a public agency, public enterprise, or m in is t ry incurs expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. A l though not an off ic ial regulation, domiciled banks may require from the importer, as part of their normal commercial operations, a deposit in dinars up to the fu ll value of the imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. All impor ts are subject to obligatory dom ic i l ia t ion at an authorized in termed iary bank, wh ich an importer must establish by subm i t t ing a commercial contract or pro fo rma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, wh ich effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account w i th corresponding amoun ts in dinars valued at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Yes. Yes. Any ju r id ical or na tu ral person registered under the Commercial Register ( inc lud ing concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods w i thout prior au thor iza t ion; no license is needed. There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A sma ll number of imports are prohibited for religious or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in 120 days. Petroleum companies are subject to the same rule, but proceeds may be deposited in a guaranteed account w i th a foreign cor- respondent bank of the BOA. All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, byproducts from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must surrender 50% of the proceeds to the interbank market; the rema in ing portion may be retained in a foreign currency account. Exporters may use the funds in these accounts for imports or other payments pertaining to their business, or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency account. Proceeds from exports of nonhydrocar- bons, and nonm ine ra ls may be surrendered to commercial banks and other au thor ized par t ic ipan ts in the in terbank foreign exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 15 Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requ iremen ts are not enforced in practice. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted, and cer ta in exports are proh ib i ted for social or cu l tu ral reasons regardless of des t ina t ion. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval All trade-related payments for approved trade transactions are free. Paymen ts re la t ing subscription and membersh ip fees, consu l t ing and legal fees, and transfers for pens ion require prior approval from the BOA and are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Profit remittances are perm i t ted, provided tax obligations have been met. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Foreign exchange allocation for tourism by Algerian residents was suspended in Oc- tober 1986. Pilgrims trave l ing to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi A rab ian r iya ls. The amount is f ixed for each p i lgr image and may be provided in the form of checks that may be cashed on a r r ival for those t rave l ing by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by nonresidents for travel abroad mu st be paid for w i th imported fore ign exchange. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Yes. The l im it is DA 15,000. Yes. Yes. Quantitative limits The l im i ts are DA 15,900 for adults and DA 7,600 for ch i ldren under 15 years old. Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. The limit is DA 7,500. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Residents of other countries work ing in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies, or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of the ir salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Yes. n.a. Prior approval The BOA mu st au tho r ize the g ran t ing of fore ign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ALGERIA Quantitative limits Limits are set on a case-by-case basis, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements F i f ty percent of the receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to ind iv idual approval by the BOA. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 17 Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign direct investment is freely permitted, except in certain specified sectors, pro- vided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions can borrow from abroad for their own needs or for those of their clients. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) n.a. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may also on-lend foreign funds borrowed abroad. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange n.a. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are required to meet the following cover: (1) a maxi- mum spread of 10% between their position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their counterpart funds in domestic currency; and (2) a maximum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, whichever is highest) for all foreign currencies and domestic currency resources. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement September 15. Algeria accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Agreement. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Angola is the Angolan readjusted kwanza. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Beginning Ju ly 1, 1996, the authorities pegged the off ic ial exchange rate to the do l lar and mandated that all transactions take place at the official exchange rate. Exchange houses were no longer allowed to deal at market-determined rates but instead were obliged to deal at rates set for commercial banks. The official exchange rate remained constant un t il Ju ly 21, 1997, when a new fixed rate of KZR 265,000 per dollar was established. The National Bank of Angola (BNA) applies a spread of 1 % to its buy ing and selling exchange rates (primary off ic ia l), and commercial banks apply a spread of 6.1% to their buy ing and selling rates (secondary off ic ia l). An illegal parallel rate also exists as a result, and the prem ium as of end-1997 was 30%-35%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The BNA prescribes the currency to be used in import and export transactions, wh ich is either that of the country of origin of imports or the country of destination of ex- ports, or the dollar. Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Bilateral settlement arrangements, wh ich do not contain bilateral payment features, are maintained w i th Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. The BNA is the exchange au thor i ty and may delegate its powers per ta in ing to specific activities to other entities. The BNA has authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to carry out transactions in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange dealers licensed to operate in foreign exchange may deal on ly in banknotes and trav- eler's checks. The BNA has delegated authority to banks to license and execute per- mitted inv is ib le and capital foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private No. Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold and trade gold only in the form of jewe l ry. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Con tro ls on ex te rnal trade Impor ts and exports of gold are the monopoly of the BNA. ANGOLA 19 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Exports of domes t ic currency are p roh ib i ted. Residents are permitted to take out more than $5,000 in foreign exchange only if they present exchange purchase documen ts. Nonresidents must present such documents when the amount exceeds $10,000. When departing Ango la, nonresidents v i s i t ing the coun try for purposes of tour ism or business are permitted, upon presentation of the corresponding sales vouchers, to repurchase up to 50% of the foreign exchange they sold to ins t i tu t ions accredited to deal in foreign exchange. Re impor ts of domestic currency are prohibited. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks that a person may br ing into the coun try, but any amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 mu st be declared upon arr iva l. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Checkbooks may not be issued against personal accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th retained export ea rn ings, fore ign currency transferred from abroad, cash, trave ler's checks, foreign payment orders, and interest accrued. They may be debited w i th sales aga inst domestic currency, but not for settlement of imports of goods and inv i s ib l es or cap i tal paymen ts. Transfers between these accounts are proh ib i ted. Held abroad n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Prior approval is required to open these accounts; they may be credited w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad or the deposit of proceeds from the account holder's ac t iv i t ies in Ango la and debited w i th the sale of foreign exchange or the repatriation of all or part of the ex is t ing deposit. Accoun ts in readjusted kwanzas may be opened or held by fo rmer residents, but the f u n ds in such accounts may on ly be w i t h d r awn to cover expenses incurred du r ing the ir stay in Ango la. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Approval required No. n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f in an c ing requ i remen ts Yes. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ANGOLA Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list n.a. Yes. Yes. All imports are subject to licensing according to a positive list and the foreign ex- change budget. The issuance of import licenses for transactions paid w i th foreign ex- change purchased from the bank ing system is subject to the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange. The corresponding positive l ist assigns priority to par t icu lar transactions, wh ich are periodically announced by the BNA. Import licenses are also required for statistical purposes even if, exceptionally, the foreign exchange is not purchased from the banking system. These licenses are issued upon application. Licenses for imports requiring foreign exchange from the banking system are granted only to importers registered w i th the M in is try of Commerce and require a pro forma invoice from the supplier valid for 90 days that includes the price and sh ipment cost, as well as a bank guarantee of payment of the local currency counterpart. Prior to shipment, products must be submitted for inspection to ascertain compliance w i th market-competitive pricing by the Societe generate de surveillance. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. A license fee of 0.1% of the import va lue is levied. The impor ta t ion of goods us ing the impo r te r 's own funds requires the prior sale of foreign currency to a commercial bank in an amount equal to the va lue of the operation in question. It is also possible to import under the bonded warehouse system, in wh ich case the importer applies to the commercial bank for the requisite au thor iza t ion, presenting the required documentation. Merchandise imports invo lv ing credit from the exporter are subject to ana lys is by the BNA as a means of ensur ing optimal and sound management of external f inanc ial resources and •guaran tee ing compliance w i th, and maintenance of, a sus ta inab le level of indebted- ness. Accordingly, in subm i t t ing the import documentation to the commercial bank, importers must attach the terms and conditions of credit w i th respect to the goods to be imported, and mu st then fo l low the same procedures that apply to o ther arrangements. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. State import monopoly There is a state import monopoly on pe tro leum. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Except for foreign oil companies, all export proceeds must be surrendered to the BNA or the commercial bank th rough wh ich exports were carried ou t. The BNA may au thor ize exporters of goods and services to retain a certain proportion of fore ign exchange earnings to be deposited in accounts at local banks. Proceeds from exports mu st be collected and surrendered w i t h in 30 days of sh ipmen t. Some Ango lan f i rms may receive a portion of the ir export earn ings in foreign exchange in accounts opened abroad for that purpose. The decision to grant e l ig ib i l i ty for th is special arrangement is based on the role that such accounts p lay in generating revenue for Ango la. However, the amoun ts invo lved are determined on a case-by-case basis. Documentation requirements Letters of credit n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas ANGOLA 21 n.a. n.a. Except for exports of the foreign oil companies, all exports of goods and services are subject to licensing. Exports of arms and ammun i t ion, ethnological collections, sh ips, ostrich products, cattle, and ivory products are prohibited. Special export regimes apply to a ircraf t, an ima ls and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork, coffee, cereals, wood and wood prod- ucts, tobacco, and petroleum. Reexports of goods other than capital goods and per- sonal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions apply to the export of products that are in short domestic supp ly. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Profit/dividends Quantitative limits All payments require prior approval. In fo rma t ion on ind ica t ive l im i ts or the applica- tion of bona fide test is not available. Service contracts w i th nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment given to domestic air and sea transportation companies, and imports not insured do- mestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Foreign investors may remit dividends provided the investment in the resident com- pany exceeds $250,000. In th is case, an au thor iza t ion from the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) is required only as a fo rma l i ty. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n .a. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Resident na t iona ls may, upon presentation of the ir passports and a i r l ine tickets, pur- chase foreign exchange from f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions as fo l lows: (1) ch i ldren up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a person a t r ip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a t r ip to o ther coun tr ies; and (2) ind iv idu a ls over 16 years, up to $1,500 a person a t r ip to neighboring countries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to cover their employees' travel expenses abroad on trips of up to 30 days for business, service, or t ra in ing, w i th the fo l low ing da i ly l im i t s: (1) president or equ iva len t, $350; (2) vice-president or equ iva- len t, $300; and (3) department director or equ iva len t, $200. If a person re turns to An- gola earlier than p lanned, the rema in ing foreign exchange must be resold to a f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion. Foreign exchange is provided through the Na t ional Health Board on a case-by-case basis at the o f f ic ial rate. The l im it is $5,000. Education travel expenses are no rma l ly expected to be covered by scho larsh ips, but an add i t ional foreign exchange amount may be granted: up to $2,500 a mon th is granted to res iden ts who spend up to 90 days abroad for educa t iona l, sc ien t i f ic, or cu l tu r al purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ANGOLA Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Up to the equ iva lent of $1,500 a mon th may be granted to Ango lans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and f inanc ia l ly depend- ent on, residents in Ango la, provided that (1) they are m inor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, demonstrate that they are s tuden ts or are incapable of wo rk ing; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, demons tra te they are incapable of working. Credit card use abroad n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Service earnings must be surrendered to the BNA or to the commercial banks w i t h in 30 days of receipt, un less the provider is au thor ized by the BNA to re ta in a certain proportion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Foreign inves tment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acqu is i t ion of equ i ty, total or par t ial takeover of operations, and lend ing related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (1994) as well as the provisions of foreign exchange leg is la t ion and regulations. Imp lemen ta t ion is the respons ib i l i ty of the Foreign Inves tment Bureau under the M in i s t ry of P l ann ing and Economic Coordination. Foreign inves tmen ts in the areas of petroleum produc- tion, diamond m in ing, and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are governed by separate leg is la t ion. All capital transfers are subject to l icens ing by the BNA, wh ich has delegated certain au tho r i ty to the commercial banks. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no such instruments in Angola, but, in principle, transactions are covered by foreign exchange and foreign inves tment legislation. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Resident fore ign companies must obtain prior au thor iza t ion from the MOF and, above certain l im i ts, from the BNA to borrow abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 23 According to the Exchange Control Law, Ango lan citizens are perm i t ted to invest abroad. Foreign inves tment is proh ib i ted in the fo l low ing areas: (1) defense, in te rnal pub l ic order, and state security; (2) central bank ing and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state (education, hea l th, u t i l i t ie s, commun ica t ion s, and t ranspo r ta t ion in f ra s t ruc tu re ). Direct inves tmen ts in the oil sector are encouraged. Foreign inves tors are guaranteed the right to t rans fer abroad the proceeds of the sale of inves tmen ts, including gains and amounts owed to them after payments of taxes due, but pr ior app roval of the MOF is requ ired. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. n .a. n .a. n.a. n.a. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd d irect inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonres iden ts Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requ iremen ts are on local currency deposits on ly. D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Open foreign exchange position l im i ts n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement July 1. A new f ixed o f f ic ial exchange rate of KZR 265,000 per do l lar was in troduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax A foreign exchange levy of 1% is applied on purchases of foreign currency. Forward exchange market No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency An t igua and Barbuda is a member of the CARICOM. Yes. The M in is try of Finance (MOF) applies exchange control to all currencies. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. External accounts may be opened, especially in tourist-oriented indus tr ies or export trade where receipts are p r ima r i ly in foreign currency and a large number of inpu ts are imported or financed in foreign currency. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a mon th ly basis. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 25 Held abroad n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l ist Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. External accounts may be ma in ta ined in any currency and can be credited w i th re- ceipts from sales of merchandise (whe ther from export-oriented or local produc t ion) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts op- erations to the MOF on a mon th ly basis. Imports and Import Payments Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and subm iss ion of documentary evidence. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. An t igua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and sub- m iss ion of documentary evidence. n.a. n .a. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the MOF and the M in is t r ies of Indus t ry and Commerce. n.a. n.a. An t igua and Barbuda applies the CARICOM's CET. Tariff rates range from zero to 25% for nearly all items. Tariff rates on a number of items, inc lud ing m i lk and pou l try, are zero. Exemptions from import duties exist for some goods, inc lud ing basic foods and ag r icu l tu ral goods. Other exemp t ions for mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and raw ma ter ia ls are granted on a case-by-case basis. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place w i t h in the bonded area. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Quan t i ta t ive l im i ts for paymen ts for interest, travel, medical costs, and studies abroad are EC$ 100,000. Legislation to raise the threshold to EC$250,000 is pending. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Interest payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends Profits may be remitted in f u ll after compliance w i th corporate income tax paymen ts. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Gamb l ing /p r ize earn ings Family ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Allowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. A l lowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Allowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 27 Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inv e s tm ent Large transfers abroad for inves tment purposes can be phased over t ime by the Finan- cial Secretary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities de- nom ina ted in fore ign exchange Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts An alien land -ho ld ing license is required, and the purchase must be approved by the Cabinet. No. n.a. n .a. MOF approval is required. Loans are subject to a 3% s tamp du ty. n .a. n .a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine peso. Transactions in convertible currencies are permitted, and contracts in these currencies are legally enforceable, although the currencies are not legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board type of arrangement. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. No. No. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions w i th countries w i th wh ich there are no payments agreements must be settled in freely convertible currencies. W i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA, payments be- tween Argen t ina and Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela are settled vo lun ta r i ly through payment agreements and a reciprocal credit mechan ism. All payments between Argen t ina and Bo l iv ia must be made through the accounts specified in the agreements. Argen t ina has agreements w i th Cuba, Ma lays ia, and Russia. Payments between Argen t ina and these countries are settled on a vo lun ta ry basis through accounts opened w i th the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) and the other central banks con- cerned, w i th the exception of Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. C lear ing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions All exchange transac t ions are carried out th rough en t i t ies au thor ized expressly for th is purpose w i th no res tr ic t ions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These authorized entities inc lude banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and f inanc ial companies. Each type of in s t i tu t ion is subject to sepa- rate regu la t ions. Credit funds and mortgage sav ings and loan companies may also make certain foreign exchange t ransac t ions on the cond i t ion that they meet certain add i t ional cap i tal requ iremen ts. There are restrictions on current paymen ts w i th respect to Iraq, L ibya, and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 29 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argen t ina or abroad. Financial ins t i tu t ions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good delivery bars among themselves, and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals the market value of wh ich is based on the da i ly list prices of major transactions. The impor ta t ion of gold coins and good delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by indus t r ial users are subject to a statistical du ty of 0.5%, as well as a sales tax. Ins t i tu t ions may carry out arbitrage operations w i th the ir c l ien ts in gold coins or good delivery gold bars against foreign banknotes. Authorized ins t i tu t ions may export gold to entities abroad. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Au thor ized banks may open accounts in pesos or in foreign exchange provided that identification requirements aimed, inter alia, at preven t ing money laundering have been met. Foreign exchange accounts must be denominated in convertible currencies and may be credited only w i th cash or w i th remittances in the fo l low ing currencies: U.S. dollars for cu r rent accounts, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and other currencies that the BCRA exp l ic i t ly authorizes at the request of f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for deposits in sav- ings and fixed-term accounts. Credit balances may be used freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. The use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Same regu la t ions as for resident accounts app ly. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 ARGENTINA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no non ta r i ff barriers on in t ra -MERCOSUR trade. However, A rgen t ina ap- plies a special regime to automobile and sugar impor ts w i th the au tho r iza t ion of MERCOSUR, pend ing agreement on a common regime for these sectors. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some c lo th ing, freezers, f u r n i- ture, paper, plastics, tires, and iron and steel products. Restrictions are in force solely for security, hyg iene, and pub l ic hea l th reasons. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions are applied to the au tomob i le sector and to some paper products. A subs tan t ial por t ion of in tra-MERCOSUR trade is conducted at a zero ta r i ff rate, but member coun tr ies may ma in ta in tar iffs for some items. Argen t ina applies tar iffs to certain textiles, paper, and iron and steel products. This regime w i ll be in force u n t il the end of 1998, at wh ich t ime tar iffs w i ll be reduced to zero. Argen t ina and the MERCOSUR countries app ly a CET to imports from the rest of the world that encompasses all products, w i th certain exceptions (Argen t ina has 300 ex- cep t ions) that are subject to a t ran s i t ional reg ime u n t il 2001 and 2006. CET rates cur- ren t ly range up to 20%. At the end of the t r an s i t ion al period in 2001, the CET w i ll be 17% for capital goods, and in 2006, the CET w i ll be 16% for compu ter and telecom- mun ica t ions equ ipmen t. A s ta t is t ical tax of 0.5% is app l ied to impor ts from all coun tr ies, except those from MERCOSUR countries, Chile, and Bo l iv ia. This tax is wa ived for cap i tal goods, fue l, and sensitive goods f rom the paper, computer, and te lecommun ica t ions sectors. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Licenses are required on ly for goods subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on exports are ma in ta ined on ly on arms, sens i t ive goods and war materials, narcotics, and protected an imal species. A 15% export du ty is applied to un tanned, pickled ap l i te, and wet blue leathers, and a 3.5% du ty is applied to soybeans, g roundnu ts, f lax, tu rn ip s, sun f lower seeds, and cotton. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts ARGENTINA Capital Transactions 31 Under the regu la t ions of the Na t ional Securities Comm is ion (CNV), foreign inves tors must meet the same requ iremen ts as those applicable to Argen t ine inves tors to make a pub l ic offer ing of securities in Argen t ina. In each case, they mu st es tab l ish a perma- nent representative office and a domicile in A rgen t ina to receive notices. They must state whe ther the securities are also being offered to the pub l ic in their coun try of ori- gin, and specify the in i t i al and periodic in fo rma t ion requ iremen ts to wh ich they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the coun try of or ig in proper ly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate f low of in fo rma t ion, the CNV may lower the requirements for these investors. The CNV may authorize foreign inves tors on a case-by-case basis to subm it only such in fo rma t ion as they wou ld per iod ica l ly subm it to the corresponding au tho r i ty in the ir ju r i sd ic t ion of or ig in. Bonds or other debt securities The same conditions as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re app ly. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts App roval of the CNV is required for pub l ic offer ings. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Foreign companies are allowed to invest in A rgen t ina w i thout prior gove rnment ap- proval on an equal footing w i th domestic f i rms and may enter into any area of eco- nomic ac t iv i ty on the ir own, because no law or regulation forces them to be associated w i th local partners. This principle applies even in cases where a foreign inves tment results in fu ll foreign ownership of a domestic company. Some restrictions app ly on inves tment in sensitive sectors, inc lud ing air transpor t, f i sh ing, insurance, nuc lear p lan ts, and sh ipyards. Foreign inves tors are en t i t led to freely repatriate the ir inves tmen t, inc lud ing ea rn ings, at any t ime, and also have unrestricted access to the foreign exchange market. These rights ass is t ing foreign investors have been fu r ther established under in te rna t ional law by means of over 30 inves tment promotion and protection agreements, w i th the fo l- low ing countries: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spa in, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, the United K ingdom, and the Un i ted States. Argen t ina is a member of the Mu l t i l a t e r al Inves tment Guarantee Agency and the In terna t ional Center for the Settlement of In- ves tment D ispu tes, and ma in ta ins a va l id and active agreement w i th the Overseas Pri- vate Inves tment Corporation. For purchases of real estate in border areas, a foreign investor mu st seek prior ap- proval for the project from the Border Super in tendency of the M in i s t ry of Defense. This l im i t a t ion exists for na t ional security reasons. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) In the case of credit arising from the "Communication A 1820 (Argendolares)," ex- tended by f i n a n c i al in te rmed ia r ies, the funds mu st be used in the coun t ry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ARGENTINA Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency-ma tch ing regu la t ions on as- sets/liabilities composition Yes. There is a 25% l im it of the inve s tment t rust por tfo l io, but th is l im it does not app ly to MERCOSUR. For security reasons, and according to Law No. 24.241 (Pension Funds Reform), no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign country, or in securities of foreign corporations. In the event that the t ru s t 's assets consist of the securities, tender offer should be made in Argen t ina or abroad w i th a m i n im um of 75% of the inves tment being made in assets issued and traded in Argentina. A m isma tch equ iva lent to 25% of the bank's capital is permitted for the negative net overall position (assets lower than l iab i l i t ies) in foreign currencies other than U.S. dollars. The positive overall position in foreign currencies other than U.S. dollars may be fi- nanced up to the amount of l iqu id net wor th. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1997. Currency The currency of Armenia is the Armenian dram. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the dram against the dollar is determined on the basis of ex- change rates in the interbank market and at foreign exchange auctions held f ive times a week in the Yerevan Stock Exchange (YSE) and twice a week in the G jum ry Stock Exchange (GSE). Banks and f inanc ial dealers holding licenses from the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) may participate in the auctions. Anyone may buy and sell at the auction through banks. However, since late 1996, foreign exchange transactions have taken place predominantly in the interbank market in which the CBA also participates. The CBA quotes off ic ial rates in terms of dollars daily on the basis of the weighted average rate in the interbank market and at the foreign exchange auctions on the pre- vious trading day. This rate is used for accounting valuation of all foreign exchange transactions of all economic agents, inc lud ing the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF). Ex- change rates for other major currencies are calculated either on the basis of quo ta t ions on the YSE, when applicable, or solely on the basis of quotations for the dollar in major international interbank markets against the currencies concerned. Foreign ex- change is also freely bought and sold by enterprises and persons w i thout restrictions through authorized banks and licensed exchange bureaus that conduct cash transactions. No. No. There are no restrictions for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the o f f ic ial or the commercial bank ing sectors. All transactions are negotiated at the mar- ket rates. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th other states are made through correspondent accounts ma in ta ined by the central banks or any banks of those countries. Settlements may be made in any currency. A rmen ia ma in ta ins agreements w i th Russ ia and Turkmen is tan. A rmen ia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Union (w i th Azerbaijan, Be- larus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russ ia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), wh ich provides for the eventual es tab l ishment of a customs un ion, a paymen ts un ion, cooperation on inves tmen t, indus t r ial development, and customs procedures. On Oc- tober 21, 1994, A rmen ia joined the Agreement on the Establishment of Payments Union of CIS Member Countries. Armenia is a member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) organization (w i th A lban ia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Roman ia, Russ ia, Turkey, and Ukra ine). Bilateral free trade 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 ARMENIA Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies agreements have been signed w i th the Ky rgyz Repub l ic, Mo ldova, Russ ia, Ta j ik i s tan, and Uk ra ine, though on ly the agreement w i th Russia is in operation. There is an arrangement w i th Tu rkmen is tan for the impo r ta t ion of n a tu r al gas. In ad- d i t ion, b i la teral clearing agreements w i th the Ba l t ic countries and the other coun t r ies of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inopera t ive. The CBA has overall responsibility for regulating f inanc ial relations between A rmen ia and other countries in close collaboration w i th the MOF. Resident and nonres ident currency dealers, inc lud ing banks, may undertake foreign exchange transac t ions w i th- out restriction. There are restrictions on capital movemen ts un less o the rw ise specified by the CBA (in wh i ch case, one mon th 's notice is requ ired). International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Payment arrears There are commercial arrears v is -a -v is Russ ia and overdue ob l iga t ions to the EU. Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Yes. Yes. A license is required for t rad ing. There are no spec if ic regu la t ions govern ing domestic trade in gold. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Res iden ts and nonres iden ts are au thor ized to export bankno tes up to $500 in cash or its equ iva lent w i thout any documen ta t ion. Amoun ts exceeding th is l im it require proof of source. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may open, ma in ta in, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Armen ia. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign currency banknotes that can be purchased w i th drams from banks or exchange bureaus, and banknotes can be depos- ited in a foreign exchange account or used for transactions w i th nonresidents. How- ever, residents may not transfer balances in these accounts to other residents in order to make paymen ts for goods and services. Resident na tu ral and ju r id ical persons may open, ma in ta in, and use accounts in banks abroad. Prior app roval is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency may be freely converted in to foreign currency. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident na tu ral and ju r id ical persons may freely open and use foreign exchange accounts w i th licensed domestic banks. They are also free to make w i thd rawa ls to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 35 Domestic currency accounts make current transactions. Balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to licensed domestic banks for drams. Foreign governments and in terna t ional in s t i tu t ions may freely open dram accounts w i th banks in A rmen ia w i thout prior authorization from the CBA. Balances in these accounts may be used for domestic transactions and may be transferred abroad. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive list Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs n .a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Import licenses from the M in i s t ry of Agr icu l ture and the M in i s t ry of Hea l th are re- quired and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pes- ticides. Imports of weapons, m i l i ta ry equ ipment and parts, and explosives require special au tho r iza t ion from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero and 10%; most imports are zero rated. Products imported from countries in the CIS are exempted. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds The CBA has the power, as specified by legislation, to impose repatriation require- men ts on export proceeds. No. Export licenses are required for medicines, w i ld an ima ls and plants, and textile prod- ucts exported to the EU. In addition, special government permission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuc lear products, and tech- nology w i th direct m i l i ta ry app l ica t ions. M in imum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign-produced goods thereof, rema in in force. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 ARMENIA Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits No. No. No. No. No. No. The long foreign exchange position (the positive difference between foreign assets and liabilities) at the end of any business day must not exceed 40% of the bank 's total capital. Effective March 1, 1998, the overall position must not exceed 40% of the bank 's capital at the end of any business day, wh i le the open position in nonconverti- ble currencies must not exceed 10% of the bank 's total capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement May 29. Armen ia accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF. Changes During 1997 Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions March 1. The overall position must not exceed 40% of the b ank 's total cap i tal at the end of any business day, wh i le the open position in noncovertible currencies must not exceed 10% of the bank's total capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Aruba is the A ruba f lor in. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax The florin is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals w i th local commercial banks w i th in margins of 0.002795% on either side of par i ty. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherland Antillean guilders. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. Exchange control authorities The CBA adm in is ters foreign exchange control. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. The open ing of an account held abroad must be reported to the CBA. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ARUBA Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. The open ing of a nonres ident account should be reported in w r i t ing to the CBA. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Balances up to Af. 200,000 are convertible. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The impor ta t ion of eggs may be subject to quotas depending on the domestic supp ly s i tua t ion. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency w i t h in eight working days and credited to a foreign currency account w i th a local for- eign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account approved by the CBA. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments As of Janua ry 1, 1997, most restrictions on these transactions were eliminated. Interest paymen ts Indicative limits/bona fide test P ro f i t /d iv idends Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest paymen ts on all types of loans can be executed if a license has been obtained from the CBA to conclude the loan. Au thor ized documents should be submitted to the CBA w i th respect to the amount invo lved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 39 Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorization may proceed only if a license was obtained for the loan. In the case of depreciation of direct investments, a special license is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Unless specifically exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency w i th in eight working days and credited to a foreign currency account w i th a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account approved by the CBA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Since January 1, 1997, outward transactions less than Af. 200,000 a year for natural persons and Af. 500,000 a year for entities (excluding commercial banks and ins t i tu- tional investors) have been free. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents A CBA license is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ARUBA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The CBA may require divestment, repatriation, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 41 Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally The limits are 40% of the f i rst Af. 10 million of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the second Af. 10 million; and 60% of the remaining liabilities. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. All restrictions on payments for imports were removed. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Controls on direct investment January L All restrictions on payments and transfers were removed. January L The requirement of a special license for foreign investments of less than Af. 500,000 a year by resident entities (excluding commercial banks and institutional investors) was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Aus tra l ia is the Aus tra l ian dollar. It also circulates in several other countries, inc lud ing K i r iba t i, N au ru, and Tuva lu. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Aus t ra l ian dollar is market determined. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, w i th the ir customers, and w i th overseas counterparties at mu tua l ly negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency w i th regard to trade- and nontrade-related transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia (RBA) retains discretionary power to in tervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no off ic ial exchange rate for the Aus t ra l ian dollar. The RBA publishes an indicative rate for the Aus tra l ian do l lar based on market observa- tion at 4 p.m. da i ly. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Ac t ive trading takes place in forward and fu tures contracts. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The RBA supervises authorized dealers and regulates open foreign exchange posi- tions. The Aus tra l ian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC), a law enforcement agency, receives informa t ion on international transactions inc lud ing those in cash, wh ich it can pass on to a number of other enforcement and governmen- tal agencies. Restrictions are placed on external payments and transfers relating to Iraq and L ibya to give effect to UN Security Council resolutions imposing sanctions against those countries. Restrictions also apply to transactions invo lv ing the authorities of the Fed- eral Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). No. No. Exportation or impor ta t ion of notes and coins to ta l ing $A 10,000 or more must be reported to AUSTRAC. Residents must purchase foreign currency from an authorized dealer. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency they brought into Aus tra l ia. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. 43 Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be through an authorized dealer. Yes. Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Local purchases and sales of foreign currency mu st be th rough an au tho r ized dealer. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Conversion must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Blocked accounts Only those accounts affected by UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no impor t- l icens ing requ iremen ts or quotas on impor ts other than the ta r i ff quota, wh ich applies to certain cheeses and curd. Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs For some products, imports are allowed on ly if w r i t ten au tho r iza t ion is obtained f rom the relevant au thor i t ies or if certain regu la t ions are complied w i th. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; f irearms and certain weapons; certain chemicals and primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained ma in ly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or techn ical specifications; and to sa t is fy certain obligations arising from Au s t r a l i a 's membe rsh ip in in te rna t ional commod i ty agreements. Most ta r i f fs have been reduced to a max imum of 5%. Tariffs on passenger motor ve- hicles (PMV) are being reduced to 15%, and ta r i f fs on textile, clothing, and footwear w i ll be reduced to a max imum of 25% by the year 2000. PMV ta r i f fs w i ll stabilize at 15% before fa l l ing to 10% in 2005. Tariffs on tex t i le, c lo th ing, and footwear products w i ll also s tab i l ize at a m ax imum of 25% un t il 2005, at wh ich time tar iffs w i ll be reduced to 17.5% for clothing and f in ished textiles, and to 10% f rom 15% for foo twear. The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods. The SPARTECA provides nonrecip- rocal, du ty - f ree access to most markets in Aus t ra l ia and New Zealand for other mem- bers. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Aus t ra l ia is covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Aus t ra l ia and Papua New Gu inea. Deve lop ing coun tr ies receive ta r i ff preferences on exports to Au s t ra l ia under the Au s t r a l i an System of Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries, w i th a u n i f o rm ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 AUSTRALIA preferential margin of 5%. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of certain indus tr ies such as textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and f ru it preparations, tuna, and sugar, except from the least-developed countries and South Pacific Island Territories. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export proh ib i t ions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure qua l i ty control, administer trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These proh ib i t ions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense-related materials; regulate the exportation of goods that invo lve high technology and have dual c iv i l ian and m i l i ta ry applications; ma in ta in adequate measures of control over designated cu l tu r al property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objec- tives; and respond to specific market distortions abroad. Rema in ing controls on pri- mary products app ly m a i n ly to food and agr icu l tural products. Approval must be obtained from the government to export coal, l iqu id na tu ral gas, bauxite, a lum ina, and mineral sands. Export controls apply to u r an ium to ensure compliance w i th the governmen t's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to certain other nuc lear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unprocessed wood, inc lud ing wood chips. The Aus t ra l ian Dairy Corpora- t ion adm in is te rs export control powers in relation to prescribed da i ry products under the prov is ions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled da i ry products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quan t i- ta t ive restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fa ll below m i n im um prices agreed to under the WTO for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made on ly by persons or f i rms licensed by the Aus tra l ian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMi^C is p r im a r i ly a trade fac i l i ta tor and does not have the power to purchase, export, or sell meat or live- stock. If other countries impose quan t i ta t ive restrictions on impor ts of meat or live- stock, the AMLC may, in conjunction w i th indu s t ry, introduce measures to control Aus tra l ian exports to conform w i th those restrictions. Other Commonwea l th s ta tu to ry marke t ing au tho r i t ies that have export control powers are the Aus t ra l ian Ho r t icu l tu ral Corporation, the Au s t ra l ian Honey Board, the Aus tra- lian Wheat Board, and the Aus tra l ian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Au s t ra l ian Wheat Boa rd 's powers make it the sole exporter of Aus t ra l ian whea t. Au s t ra l ia has a complete ban on the export of merino ewes, genetic ma te r ia l, ova, and embryos to any coun t ry o ther th an New Zealand. However, mer ino breeding rams purchased at designated export auctions and semen from rams included in the Na t ional Register of Semen Export Donors may be exported, subject to an annu al quo ta (cu r ren t ly l im i ted in total to 900 rams a year) and app roval by the Depar tment of Pri- ma ry Indus t r ies and Energy (DPIE). No ram sold and nom ina ted for the collection of semen for export may be phy s i c a l ly exported. There is no res tr ic t ion on the export of merino rams or reproduc t ive ma ter ial to New Zealand. The above restrictions do not app ly to mer ino rams intended for s laugh te r; howeve r, the export of these rams is subject to con tro ls to ensu re they do not enter breed ing flocks. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 45 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions The pu rchase of shares and o ther securities of a pa r t ic ipa to ry na tu re, wh i ch may be affected by laws and policies on inwa rd direct inves tmen t, is restricted. Foreign gov- e rnmen ts, the ir agencies, and in t e rn a t ion al o rgan iza t ions are not perm i t ted to issue bearer bonds and, when bo r row ing in the A u s t r a l i an cap i tal ma rke t, mu st adv ise the Au s t ra l ian authorities of the details of each bo r row ing after its completion. Subject to certain disclosure requ iremen ts, overseas banks may issue securities in the who lesa le cap i tal market in amoun ts of $A 500,000 or more. On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inv e s tm ent Yes. No. Prior au tho r iza t ion is required for (1) proposals by fore ign interests that wou ld resu lt in the owne rsh ip of a shareholding of 15% or more by a single foreign interest or as- sociates, or 40% or more by two or more unre la ted foreign interests in an A u s t r a l i an corporation; however, foreign inve s tment in businesses other th an the restricted sec- tors, w i th total assets of less than $A 5 m i l l i on (less than $A 3 m i l l i on for ru ral prop- erties) is exempt f rom exam ina t ion and no t i f ica t ion; (2) a ll inve s tmen ts in the bank ing, c iv il av ia t ion, a irpor ts, sh ipp ing, media, and te lecommun ica t ion sectors that are sub- ject to special res tr ic t ions; (3) direct inve s tmen ts by foreign gove rnmen ts or the ir agencies irrespective of size; and (4) proposals to es tab l ish new businesses in other than the restricted sectors of the economy where the total amount of the inves tment is $A 10 m i l l ion or more. On Ap r il 9, 1997, the b lanket p roh ib i t ion on a fore ign take- over of any of the ma jor banks was removed. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts All acqu is i t ions of real estate must be app roved, un less exempt by r egu l a t ion. Acqu i- s i t ions of non re s iden t ial comme rc ial real estate for deve lopment are n o rm a l ly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 AUSTRALIA approved as are acqu is i t ions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. Ac- qu i s i t ion of developed nonres iden t ial commercial real estate is exempt where the total va lue of the property is less than $A 5 m i l l ion. Approval is also no rma l ly granted for res iden t ial land for deve lopment or for the ac- qu is i t ions of dwe l l ings ( inc lud ing condom in iums ), direct f rom a developer, e i ther "off the plan," wh i le under cons truc t ion, or completed but never occupied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwe l l ings are sold to fore ign inves to rs. Foreign acqu is i t ions of es tab l ished res iden t ial real estate are not no rma l ly approved except in cases invo lv ing temporary residents who acquire accommodation for a pe- riod in excess of 12 mon ths, subject to resale of the property upon depar ture. Foreign persons who are en t i t led to reside pe rmanen t ly in Aus tra l ia are not required to seek approval to acquire any form of res iden t ial real estate. Foreign acqu is i t ion of residen- t ial real estate ( inc lud ing condom in ium s) w i t h in a designated integrated tou r i st resort is exempt from au tho r iza t ion. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to p ruden t ial requ i remen ts, e.g., l i q u i d i ty managemen t, and credit concentration. Inve s tment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Non res iden ts may inve st in banks up to a l im it of 10% of shares. Any inv e s tm ent larger than 10% mu st be approved by the Treasurer. On March 27, 1998, the RBA removed open foreign exchange position l im i ts on au thor ized fo re ign exchange dealers. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The rules of the Au s t r a l i an Stock Exchange require tha t, to be a stockbroker, a ma jor- ity of the directors of the s tockho ld ing en t i ty mu st be A u s t r a l i an res iden ts. Th is ru le does not p roh ib it fore igners from own ing a stockbroking en t i ty. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on direct inve s tmen ts Changes During 1997 June 5. The government froze ta r i f fs on passenger motor veh ic les at 15% between the years 2000 and 2005, fo l low ing the imp lemen ta t ion of a reform program. September 10. The government froze ta r i f fs on tex t i le, c lo th ing, and footwear products at 25% between the years 2000 and 2005, fo l low ing the imp lemen ta t ion of a reform program. April 9. The b lanket p roh ib i t ion on a foreign takeover of any of the major banks was removed. Hencefor th, any proposed foreign takeover or acqu is i t ion w i ll be assessed on the basis of its merits in accordance w i th the Foreign Acqu i s i t ions and Takeovers Act (1975). The government w i ll app ly the pr inc ip le that any large-scale transfer of Aus tra l ian owne rsh ip of the f inanc ial system to foreign hands would be contrary to the na t ional in teres t. Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and o ther credit in s t i tu t ions March 27. The RBA removed open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts on au tho r ized foreign exchange dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Currency The currency of Austria is the Austrian schilling. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Aus tr ia participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th th is agreement, Aus- tr ia ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the schilling and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of ±15% around the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. At the same time, it continues to keep the schilling's external value constant against the deutsche mark. However, to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, the Austrian National Bank (ANB) intervenes in concert with the other EMS members to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates; the intervention curren- cies are the currencies of participant countries and the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. There are no bilateral payment agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, wh ich include provisions on transfers between the signatories. Most exchange transactions are effected through Aus tr ian banks authorized by the central bank. Restrictions are imposed on certain current payments and transfers to Libya in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993). Certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq are still in force. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency AUSTRIA Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by UN sanctions against Iraq and Libya. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal M in i s t ry for Economic Af- fa irs for indus tr ial products and by the Federal M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture and Forestry for agricultural products. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regula- tions based on the common commercial policy (Art. 113 EEC), i.e., for indus t r ial product import restrictions in the textile and clothing sectors and statistical su rve i l- lance for products f a l l ing under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regula- tions vis-a-vis Ch ina for imports of some consumer products based on current EC law. Positive list Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Aus tr ia applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Licenses for exports must be obtained from the re levant m in i s t ry or at the t ime of clearance from the customs au thor i t ies. For most exports, licenses are not requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 49 Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fu l f i l lm ent of quotas established in accordance w i th such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions In some cases, reporting requirements to the ANB exist. No. No. In the auditing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power gen- eration sector certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Aus t r ian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks Reserve requirements apply only to deposits held in Austrian schillings. Liquid asset requirements apply only to deposits held in Austrian schillings. The q u a l i f y i ng par t ic ipa t ion of a credit in s t i tu t ion may not exceed more than 15% of its own fund s. The total book va lue of all such qu a l i fy ing participation may not exceed 60% of its own fund s. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts An open position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 AUSTRIA Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan mana t. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing The external va lue of the manat is determined on the basis of morning and afternoon da i ly trad ing sessions. The mo rn ing session is l im i ted to Baku In terbank Currency Exchange (BICEX) member banks, wh ich un t il October 1997 excluded foreign banks. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is determined by the Azerbaijan Na t ional Bank (ANB) on the basis of BICEX trading. The afternoon trading, wh ich began on September 25, 1997, is operated by the Organized Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (OICEX) and includes all banks w i th foreign exchange licenses. The OICEX uses BICEX fa- c i l i t ies for c lear ing and operates under trading rules and procedures laid out in a col- lective agreement signed by each participating member. Trading under OICEX is, however, restricted to a band of ±0.5% of the o f f ic ial ANB rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th the Ba l t ic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU are effected th rough correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these countries or th rough correspondent accounts of the respective central banks. Yes. Yes. Clearing agreements Azerbaijan is a member of the Payment Un ion of the CIS countries. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency opera- t ions, and administers off ic ial gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall respons ib i l i ty for issu ing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open foreign exchange accounts abroad; for regulating foreign exchange opera- t ions, in c lud ing imp lemen t ing and mon i to r ing compliance w i th the law; and for estab- l ish ing prudential rules govern ing foreign exchange operations. The M in is try of Trade regulates foreign trade, w h i le the Customs Service Law regulates the organization and operation of customs. International security restrictions No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls are adm in is tered by the cab inet m in i s t r ies j o i n t ly w i th the ANB. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 AZERBAIJAN Controls on external trade A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation and importation of foreign banknotes are regulated by the ANB and the customs agencies. On exports Foreign currency On impor ts Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No declaration of the origin of foreign exchange is required for ind iv idua ls, who may transfer freely foreign exchange held in these accounts to their close relatives up to $10,000 and, upon au thor iza t ion, larger amoun ts to the ir bank accounts abroad, or may freely convert it into domestic currency. Resident persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad, subject to authorization by the ANB. Enterprises are obliged to repatri- ate the foreign exchange held in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Na tural and juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange on the BICEX and OICEX, as well as at authorized banks, up to the l im it set by the ANB. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for mana ts. Prior approval is required. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in mana ts and use them for domestic transactions, in accordance w i th ins truc t ions issued by the ANB. Prior approval is required. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspec t ion Letters of credit Advance import paymen ts of more than 180 days prior to the delivery of goods are not allowed. Prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are l im i ted to the equ iva lent of $10,000. Subject to au thor iza t ion of the ANB, the amount may exceed the ind ica t ive l im i t. n.a. Prepaymen ts by bank transfers in excess of $10,000 require e i ther a letter of credit or the au tho r iza t ion of the ANB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 53 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. On Janua ry 1, 1997, tar iffs were un i f ied at 15% for all goods and for imports from all countries. Capital and input goods are subject to a ta r i ff rate of 5%. A customs fee of 0.15% is levied on imports from all sources. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No: Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports w i th in 180 days and t rans fer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan w i th in 10 days of receipt, un less spe- c if ica l ly exempted by the government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic ac t iv i t ies may be deducted from the proceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. No. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Since March 1997, resident ind iv idu a ls were allowed access to the BICEX to pu rchase noncash foreign exchange for t rans fer abroad in payment of bona f ide cu r rent in terna- t ional transactions. However, prior approval is required for transfers abroad w i th re- gard to foreign workers' wages, and gamb l ing and prize earnings. Since August 1997, any amount may be paid w i thout l im i t a t ion, on the basis of docu- men ts con f i rm ing that f re ight and insurance services ( insurance policy) have been ac tua l ly rendered. General l im i ta t ions apply to advance paymen ts. These regu la t ions app ly also to un lo ad ing and storage costs and adm in i s t r a t ive expenses. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits The l im it is $5,000 a t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test For bus iness t r ip s, t h is l im it may be exceeded on the basis of an expense es t ima te. Medical costs Quantitative limits S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Subsc r ip t ions and membe rsh ip fees Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Quantitative limits The l im it is $10,000. The l im it is $10,000. The l im it is $10,000 a year. The l im it is $10,000 a person a yea r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 AZERBAIJAN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in six mon ths and t rans fe r red to a licensed bank w i t h in 10 days of receipt. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts There are no res tr ic t ions, except for banks that sell the ir shares to non res iden ts w i t h in the quota specified by the ANB. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts This process is regulated by the government in coordination w i th the ANB by estab- l i sh ing quotas and t rad ing au tho r iza t ion procedures. Purchase abroad by residents The transfer of funds is permitted w i th the approval of the ANB. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Regulated by the laws on securities and stock exchanges, and j o i nt stock compan ies, and by in-house ins t ruc t ion of the ANB. Sale is ma in ly by prior subscription (an or- ganized market is ju st emerging). A new draft of the Securities Law has been devel- oped, wh ich emphasizes safeguard ing investors' r igh ts. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secur i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. n .a. n.a. n.a. These in s t rum en ts are cu r ren t ly not ava i lab le, and the leg is la t ion concern ing der iva- t ives has not been fo rmu la ted. Regu la t ions on fo rwa rd t ransac t ions i n v o l v i ng govern- ment bonds have now been developed on the i n i t i a t i ve of b anks in co l labora t ion w i th the ANB. The regu la t ions have not been applied so far, in v iew of the i n s i g n i f i c a nt vo lume of government bonds. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment AZERBAIJAN 55 Direct inves tment abroad requires ANB au tho r iza t ion. Profits may be reinvested in local currency held in Azerbaijan or converted in to for- eign currency and transferred w i thout restriction. Foreign inves tors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or jo int ven tures w i th foreign equ i ty capital owne rsh ip of more than 30% are entitled to a two-year ho l iday on p ro f it taxes, impo r ts and exports of goods and services may be under taken w i thout licenses, and exporters of manu fac- tured goods are allowed to retain 100% of the ir foreign exchange earn ings. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regu la t ions Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement September 25. The Organized In terbank Foreign Currency Exchange (OICEX) started afternoon operations (afternoon market). Imports and import payments January 1. Tariffs were un if ied at 15% for all goods imported from all countries. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 31. Access to the BICEX by resident ind iv idu a ls for the purchase of noncash foreign exchange in connection w i th bona fide current t ransac t ions was a l lowed. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rum en ts December 13. Restrictions on the purchase of government securities by nonresidents were l if ted. December 13. Restrictions on the membership of nonres ident brokerages in the BICEX stock d iv i s ion were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Baham ian do l lar. Commemorative coins in denom ina t ions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$ 1,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in s i lver are legal tender but do not circulate. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently w i th the Baham ian dollar. In addition to the o f f ic ial exchange market, there is a market in wh ich inve s tment cur- rency may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank of The Bahamas (CBB); the current p rem ium bid and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct inves tmen ts outside The Bahamas. In cer ta in c ircum- stances, the CBB may also perm it residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such ou tward inves tmen ts. The Baham ian dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at B$l per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also o f f ic ia l ly quo ted, w i th the buy ing rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5% above the buy ing rate. The CBB deals only w i th commercial banks. For transactions w i th the pub l ic, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50% buy ing and 0.75% selling per US$1, and 0.50% buy ing or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to all ou tward remittances. No. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual comm i tmen t. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu tu re re- quirements w i thout the CBB's permission. Au thor ized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward w i th nonresidents w i thout prior approval from the CBB. Commer- cial banks may deal forward among themse lves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that the ir open spot or fo rwa rd pos i t ion does not exceed the equ iva lent of B$500,000 long or short. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no d is t inc t ion between fore ign territories. Settlements w i th residents of foreign coun tr ies may be made in any fore ign currency or in Baham ian dollars th rough an ex ternal account. Foreign currenc ies com- prise all currencies other than the Baham ian do l lar. No. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the CBB, wh ich delegates to au thor ized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve a l loca t ions of foreign exchange for certain cu r rent p aym en t s, 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 57 inc lud ing paymen ts for impor ts up to B$ 100,000; approval au thor i ty for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Fam i ly Islands. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Res iden ts, other than au tho r ized dealers, are not perm i t ted to hold or deal in gold bu l l ion. However, residents who are known users of gold for indu s t r ial purposes may, w i th the approval of the CBB, meet the ir current indu s t r ial requirements. There is no restriction on residents' acqu is i t ion or retention of gold coins. Au tho r ized dealers are not required to ob ta in licenses for bu l l ion or coins, and no impo rt d u ty is imposed on these items. Commercial impor ts of gold jewe lry do not require a license and are du ty free, a l though a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax payable to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jew- elry from any source. A traveler could export bankno tes up to B$70 u n t il February 17, 1997, when the l im it was raised .to B$200. Baham ian trave lers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. Impor ta t ion is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts are perm i t ted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. W i th the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external ac- counts in Baham ian dollars for nonres ident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonres ident investors. Au thor ized banks may freely open external accounts denom ina ted in Baham ian dollars for w in ter residents and for persons w i th residency permits who are not ga in fu l ly employed in The Bahamas. Persons of a for- eign na t iona l i ty who have been granted temporary resident status are treated in some respects as non res iden ts but are not perm i t ted to hold ex ternal accounts in B ah am i an dollars. Ex ternal accounts in B ah am i an dollars are no rma l ly funded en t i re ly from for- eign cu r rency o r ig in a t ing ou ts ide The Bahamas, but income on registered inves tmen ts may also be credited to these accounts w i th the approval of the CBB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 THE BAHAMAS Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is required. Blocked accounts The accounts of residents em ig ra t ing from The Bahamas who are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents are blocked for amounts in excess of B$25,000 for a period of four years. Balances on blocked accounts are transferable th rough the off ic ial ex- change market after that t ime or through the Inves tment Currency Market at any t ime; they may also be invested w i th the approval of the CBB in certain resident-held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Prior approval from the CBB is required to make paymen ts for imports exceeding B$ 100,000, irrespective of o r ig in, except in the Fam i ly Is lands, where th is au tho r i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is no rma l ly g iven au toma t ica l ly upon submission of pro fo rma invoices or other re levant documents p rov ing the exis- tence of a purchase contract. The impor ta t ion of certain commod i t ies is proh ib i ted or controlled for social, h um a n i- ta r ian, or hea l th reasons. For all impor ts of ag r icu l tu ral products, a pe rm it mu st be obtained from the M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture. All other goods may be imported w i t h o ut a license. Customs entries are subject to a s tamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tar iff rate on most goods is 42%, and the average tar iff rate is 35%. Stamp du t ies on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no impo rt du ty on certain tourist-related goods, but these goods are subject to s tamp du- ties rang ing from 8% to 20%. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached the ir destination or w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t; a l te rna t ive ly, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export licenses are not required, except for c raw f ish, conch, and arms and ammun i t ion. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no restrictions on current paymen ts. However, there are l im i ts on the ap- proval au tho r i ty delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 59 make paymen ts to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other inv is ib les, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life-insurance premi- ums, w i th in specified l im i ts. CBB approval is required for paymen ts in excess of those limits or for categories of payments not delegated. CBB approval is required for transac t ions over B$3,000. CBB approval is required for transactions over B$6,000. For all inves tmen ts w i th approved s ta tus, permission is given upon app l ica t ion for the transfer. Un load ing /s torage costs Prior approval Comm iss ions Prior approval P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n .a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Under delegated au tho r i ty, the l im i ts for tour ist travel are B$ 1,000 a person above the age of 18 years and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a trip. For business or professional travel, the l im it is B$ 10,000 a person a year. The allowance for tour ist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, wh ich are normally obtained against payment in Baham ian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign ex- change obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than trave l; any unused balance must be surrendered w i th in a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one week of returning to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Quantitative limits Consu l t ing / legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Apart from a B$l ,000 cash allowance, authorized dealers may approve all medical paymen ts to doctors or medical es tab l ishmen ts. Under delegated au tho r i ty, residents are entitled to a foreign exchange a l lowance of B$3,000 a person a t r ip. Subject to adequate documen tary evidence, an education allowance is granted by the CBB w i thout a l im i t. Under delegated au tho r i ty, the l im it is B$ 1,000. Yes. Under delegated au thor i ty, the l im it is B$3,000. Yes. Yes. The l im it is 50% of wages and salaries. If comm i tmen ts outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, addi- t ional amoun ts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of the ir accumu la ted savings resu l t ing from the ir emp loyment in The Bahamas. Gamb l ing /p r ize earn ings Res iden ts are not allowed to remit funds for gam ing purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 THE BAHAMAS Credit card use abroad Prior approval Approval is required for residents to hold an in te rna t ional credit card, wh ich may not be used to pay for l ife insurance prem iums and capital items. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all proceeds. Surrender requirements All foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer w i thout delay. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and ou tf lows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, wh ich are en- couraged, are required to go through the manual exchange control approval process, a l though the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents In principle, inward inves tment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals generally reflects the government's economic and in- vestment policy guidelines. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities w i th o f f ic ial ex- change, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th in- vestment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the CBB and are norma l ly transacted through authorized agents, who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions w i thout any fu r ther approval from the CBB. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by, or to the order of, an authorized agent. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the CBB by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the inves tment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Nonresident buyers of Baham ian-do l lar-denom ina ted securities must fund the acqui- sition of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, d iv idends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the ho ld ings have been properly acquired by nonres iden ts. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Same regulations as for bonds and other debt securities app ly. On collective inves tment securities Same regu la t ions as for bonds and other debt securities app ly. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Same regulations as for bonds and other debt securities app ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Ou tw a rd direct inves tment THE BAHAMAS 61 A resident company who l ly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Baham ian dollars, a l though approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the company is par t ly owned by residents, the amount of local cur- rency borrowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to the residents' interest in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Baha- mas must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled by any means, whe ther directly or ind irec t ly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents p r im a r i ly to import and d is tr ibu te products manu fac tu red outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Baham ian dollars from residents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all the ir f inanc ing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are no rma l ly permitted on application. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign cur- rency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direc- t ion of the ir fore ign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the pr inc ipal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Baham ian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign cur- rency loans, it is cond i t ional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet paymen ts to nonresidents for wh ich permission has been specifically given. Yes. Yes. The use of o f f ic ial exchange for direct inves tment abroad is l im i ted to B$100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the inves tment (wh ichever is greater) for inves tmen ts from wh ich the add i t ional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of paymen ts from ex- port receipts, prof i ts, or other earn ings w i t h in 18 mon ths of the inves tment w i ll at least equal the total amount of inves tment and w i ll continue thereafter. Inves tmen ts abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to ind iv idu al approval from the CBB, by foreign currency pu r- chased in the inves tment currency market or by the retained prof i ts of foreign subsidi- ary companies. Permission is not given for inves tmen ts that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inwa rd direct inves tment CBB approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts In the event of a sale or l iqu ida t ion, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, in c lud ing any capital appreciation, through the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Residents requ ire the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Ba- hamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment cur- rency, and approval is l im i ted to one property a f am i ly. Incidental expenses connected w i th the purchase of property for personal use may norma l ly be met w i th inves tment currency. Expend i tu res necessary for the ma in tenance of the property or a r is ing di- rectly from its owne rsh ip may, w i th permission, be met w i th foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Foreigners i n t e n d i ng to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than f ive acres in size mu st ob ta in a perm it from the Inves tmen ts Board. If such an app l ica- t ion is approved, payment for the purchase may be made e i ther in Baham ian do l la rs from an ex te rnal source or in fore ign currency. Nonres iden ts w i sh ing to purchase proper ty for residential purposes may do so w i thout prior approval but are required to ob ta in a Ce r t i f ica te of Reg is t ra t ion from the Foreign Inves tment Board on comp le t ion of the t ransac t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 THE BAHAMAS Sale locally by nonresidents App roval is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is B$500,000 for a long or short pos i t ion. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. There is no securities legislation. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 17, The l im it on exports of banknotes by travelers was raised to B$200 from B$70. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Currency The currency of Bahra in is the Bahra in d ina r. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Limited f lex ib i l i ty in respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Bahra in d inar has a fixed re la t ionsh ip to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.47619 per SDR 1. The exchange rate of the d inar in terms of the SDR may be set w i th marg ins of ±7.25% of th is fixed re la t ionsh ip. In practice, however, the d inar has ma in ta ined a stable re la t ionsh ip w i th the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency. The m idd le rate of the d inar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahra in Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides da i ly recom- mended rates to banks for amoun ts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those cur- rencies. The BMA does not deal w i th the public. In the ir dealings w i th the pub l ic, commercial banks are required to use the BMA 's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds ster- ling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge a commission of 2% (special rates of commission app ly for transac t ions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA 's U.S. dollar rates and the New York mar- ket rates against the U .S. dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks th rough the open position of bank s' mon th ly re turns. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Israel are p roh ib i ted. Otherwise, no requ iremen ts are imposed on exchange paymen ts or receipts. No. Exchange control au thor i t ies There is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on ex ternal trade Yes. Yes. No. Impor ts of gold jewe l ry are subject to a 10% customs du ty, but gold ingots are ex- emp t. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain BMA ap- proval before they can register w i th the M in i s t ry of Commerce. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BAHRAIN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in Bahra in and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the qua l i ty and prices of these goods are w i th in specified mar- gins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bah ra in and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammun i t ion, and alcoholic beverages. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5% and 10% on most commodities but the rate is 20% on vehicles, launches, and yachts, and 125% on alcoholic beverages. On Ju ly 1, 1997, the import du ty for tobacco was increased to 70% from 50% w i th a m i n im um charge of BD 1,300 a kilogram for various tobaccos, and BD 5,600 a k i lo- gram for var ious cigars and cigarettes. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 65 Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from inv is ib les from Israel are prohibited. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but paymen ts may not be made to or received from Israel. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits There is a l im it of 25% on holding of shares of jo int stock companies by GCC nation- als and 24% by other nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. To residents from nonresidents Controls are applied to offshore bank ing un i ts and inves tment banks in Bah ra in. F in an c i al credits Same conditions apply as for commercial credits. Guaran tees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Same conditions apply as for commercial credits. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BAHRAIN Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents GCC na t iona ls are permitted to purchase up to 25% of the total real estate in Bah ra in. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of d iv idends and the rem i t- tance of prof i ts. Licensed offshore bank ing un i ts may freely engage in transactions w i th nonresidents, a l though transactions w i th residents are not no rma l ly permitted. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is limited to 15% of each b ank 's cap i tal base. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments July 1. Import du ty for tobacco was increased to 70% from 50% w i th a m i n im um charge of BD 1,300 a kilogram for various tobaccos, and BD 5,600 a k i logram for var ious cigars and cigarettes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ap r il 1 1, 1994. Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangemen ts Inoperative Reg ional arrangemen ts Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The taka is pegged to a weighted currency basket of Bangladesh's major trading part- ners. Since January 1, 1996, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) ceased to deal in the curren- cies of the other ACU countries and now deals w i th authorized domestic banks on ly in dollars, the in te rven t ion currency. Au thor ized banks are free to set the ir own buy ing and selling rates for the dollar and the rates for other currencies, based on cross rates in in te rna t ional markets. No. No. Forward contracts are ava i lab le from au thor ized banks, covering periods of up to six mon ths for export proceeds and import paymen ts, and up to three mon ths of remit- tances of su rp lus collection from foreign sh ipp ing companies and a ir l ines. Au tho r ized banks are permitted to retain wo rk ing balances w i th the ir foreign correspondents. Currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are ef- fected aga inst unde r ly ing approved commercial transactions. The BB does not transact in the forward market, nor does it regulate transac t ions be- yond the normal requ iremen ts of p ruden t ial superv is ion. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements no rma l ly take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, th rough nonresident taka accounts. Settlements w i th ACU member countries are required to be effected through the ACU in terms of the AMU (equivalent in va lue to the do l lar, effec t ive Janua ry 1, 1996). Settlements for trade under bilateral commodity exchange agreements are effected through special nonconvertible dollar accounts. Payments for imports may be made to any country (w i th the exception of countries from wh ich im- portation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the coun try concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Bang ladesh m a in t a ins commod i ty exchange agreements in nonconvertible dollars w i th Bu lga r ia, the Czech Repub l ic, Hung a ry, and Ch ina. Bang ladesh is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the BB in accordance w i th general policy, fo rmu- lated in consu l ta t ion w i th the M i n i s t ry of Finance. Comme rc ial banks and specialized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are issued licenses as authorized dealers (authorized banks) in 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BANGLADESH International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in i s t ry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for i s su ing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make the ir imports in terms of the IPO against LCs. Letter-of-credit authorization forms (LCAFs) are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. All settlements w i th Iraq and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, according to UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically There are no restrictions on the in te rnal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or s i lver o rnamen ts ( inc lud ing coins) and jewe l ry, but there is a p roh ib i t ion on the ho ld ing of gold and silver in all other fo rms except by licensed indu s t r ia l i s ts or dentists. The impor ta t ion and exportation of gold and silver requ ire special pe rm iss ion. How- ever, adu lt fema le travelers are free to br ing in or take out any amount of gold jewe l ry w i thout prior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewe l ry and imports of gold and silver for the export/manufacture of jewe lry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. A Bangladesh or a foreign national may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and t rave le r 's checks they declared on entry or up to $5,000 or the equ iva lent brought in w i thout declaration. They may also, w i thout ob ta in ing the approval of the BB, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 in to convertible foreign currencies at the time of the ir departure. Residents may take out foreign currency and trave ler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to $5,000 brought in w i thout declaration when re tu rn ing from a previous v is it abroad. The impor ta t ion of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to $5,000, but larger amoun ts shou ld be declared to customs upon a r r ival in Bangladesh. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Bangladesh na t iona ls and persons of Bangladesh or ig in who are wo rk ing abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in deutsche ma rk, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or dollars. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) rem i t tances in convertible currencies received from abroad th rough normal b ank ing and postal channels; (2) proceeds of conver t ib le currenc ies (banknotes, t rave le r 's checks, d ra f ts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amoun ts exceed- ing $5,000 have been declared to customs upon a r r ival in Bang ladesh; (3) t rans fe rs from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 69 (WES); and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited w i thout restriction, subject to reporting to the BB. Residents, when re tu rn ing from abroad, may br ing in any amount of foreign currency and may ma in ta in a resident foreign currency deposit account w i th the foreign ex- change brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangla- desh or commissions ar is ing from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferab le abroad and may be used for travel in the u sual manner. These accounts may be opened in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and dollars. Exporters and local jo in t- ven ture f i rms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or in te rna t ional agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of d ip loma t ic missions in Bang ladesh, their expatriates, and d ip loma t ic bonded warehouses (du ty - f ree shops). Prior approval is required. Residents who had opened an account abroad when previously residing abroad may m a i n t a in such an account af ter re tu rn ing to Bangladesh. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to foreign cu r rency Nonresident Accounts • \ /1 ^ Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. All nonresident accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in wh ich the account holder is a pe rmanent resident ( the accounts of the Un i ted Na t ions and its agencies are treated as resident accounts). Bangladesh na t iona ls res id ing abroad; foreign na t iona ls, companies, and f i rms regis- tered or incorporated abroad; banks and other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, in c lud ing i n s t i t u- t ional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh m iss ions and government in s t i tu t ion s; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open in teres t-bear ing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in deutsche ma rk, Japa- nese yen, pounds sterling, or dollars. These accounts may be credited in i n i t i al m i n i- mum amoun ts of $1,000 or $500 ($25,000 for foreigners), w i th rem i t tances in convertible currencies and transfers from ex is t ing foreign currency deposit accounts ma in ta ined by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The accounts bear interest if the ir terms range from one month to one year. Bangladesh nationals may ma in ta in a foreign cur- rency account abroad wh i le residing abroad and may con t inue to hold the account af ter re tu rn ing to Bangladesh. The balance, inc lud ing interest earned, may be trans- ferred in foreign exchange by the account ho lder to any coun try or to any foreign cur- rency deposit account ma in ta ined by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, wh ich are free ly conve r t ib le in to taka, mu st be reported mon th ly by banks to the BB. Non re s ident Bang ladesh is who do not open or m a i n t a in a foreign currency deposit account wh i le abroad may open a nonres ident foreign currency deposit ac- count w i th foreign exchange b rought in f rom abroad w i t h in six mon ths of the date of the ir re turn to take up permanent residence in Bang ladesh. Non res ident foreign currency accounts may be opened by au tho r ized dealers w i t h o ut prior approval f rom the BB for Bangladesh na t iona ls and foreign na t iona ls who reside abroad and for fore ign f i rms opera t ing abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account ho lder's absence by authorized dealers w i thout pr ior app roval from the BB. Certain other deb i ts and credits may be made w i t h o ut prior app roval from the BB, but are subject to ex post recording. Foreign m iss ions and embassies, the ir expatriate personnel, foreign a ir l ine and sh ip- p ing compan ies, and in t e rn a t ion al nonp ro f it organ iza t ions in Bangladesh may open in te res t -bea r ing accoun ts, but the in terest earned can be disbursed on ly in local cu r rency. A ll d ip lom a t ic m i s s ions ope ra t ing in Bang ladesh, th e ir d ip loma t ic off icers, home- based members of the m iss ion s ta f f s, in te rna t ional nonp ro f it o rgan iza t ions ( inc lud ing c h a r i t a b le o rgan iza t ions f u n c t i o n i ng in Bang ladesh and the ir respective pe rsonne l ), ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BANGLADESH foreign oil companies engaged in oil exp lo ra t ion in Bang ladesh and the ir expa t r ia te employees, UN organ iza t ions and other in te rna t ional organ iza t ions, foreign contrac- tors and consu l tan ts engaged in specific projects, and foreign na t iona ls res id ing in Bangladesh (regardless of the ir status) are a l lowed to m a in t a in conve r t ib le taka ac- counts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th the proceeds of inwa rd rem i t tances in conver t ib le foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any t ime for local dis- bursements in taka, as we ll as for remittances abroad in conve r t ib le currencies. Trans- fers between convertible taka accounts are free ly pe rm i t ted. Prior app roval is requ ired. Blocked accounts Nonres ident taka accounts of Bangladesh na t iona ls can be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Advance paymen ts for impo r ts requ i re app roval from the BB, wh i ch is no rm a l ly g iven on ly for specialized or cap i tal goods. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspec t ion is required for i tems prescribed in the Impo rt Po l icy Order. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Payment aga inst impo r ts is gene ra l ly pe rm iss ib le on ly under cover of irrevocab le LCs. However, per ishab le food items of va lue not exceeding $7,000 a cons ignment may be imported over land w i thout LCs; cap i tal mach inery and indus t r ial raw materials can also be imported w i thout LCs. Recognized export-oriented un i ts operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of up to four mon ths' requ iremen ts of the ir raw and pack ing ma ter ia ls by es tab l ish ing impo rt LCs w i thout reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (e i ther on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or up to 180 days on a usance ba- sis) against export LCs received by them. Au tho r ized dealers may es tab l ish LCs on an f.o.b. basis w i thout the approval of the BB, subject to certain cond i t ions. Foreign ex- change for au thor ized impor ts is provided au toma t ica l ly by au thor ized dealers when paymen ts are due. A ll impo r te rs ( in c lud ing a ll government depa r tmen ts, w i th the exception of the M in i s- try of Defense) are required to obtain LCAFs for all impor ts. Under the au tho r i ty of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect impor ts aga inst LCAFs issued by au thor ized dealer banks w i thout an impo rt license. S ing le -coun t ry LCAFs are issued for impor ts under b i la teral trade or paymen ts agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise va l id wo r ldw ide, except that impor ts from Israel and impor ts transported on f lag vessels of Israel are p roh ib i ted. Goods mu st be shipped w i t h in 17 mon ths of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of mach ine ry and spare parts, and 9 mon ths in the case of all other i tems. Items not specified in the control l ist of the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a va l id import registration certificate. The controlled list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the fou r -d ig it level of the Harmon ized System Codes. The impor ta t ion of these items is restricted or pro- h ib i ted e i ther for pub l ic safe ty, re l ig ious, env i ronmen ta l, and social reasons, or be- cause s im i lar items are produced loca l ly. Up to 26 i tems are restricted pure ly for trade purposes (7 of wh ich are banned and 19 restricted). Imports from Israel are p roh ib i ted. All items not on the control l ist are freely impor tab le by registered impor ters. Impor ts of specified raw materials and pack ing materials by indu s t r ial consumers are governed by an en t i t lement sys tem, based on the requ i remen ts for va r ious indu s t r i es ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 71 du r ing each import program period established by the Board of Inves tmen t. Firms in the indus t r ial sector are given an entitlement to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the en t i t lemen t. The entitle- ment system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely im- portable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled l is t. Separately, indus t r ial consumers may be issued w i th LCAFs for parts and accessories of mach inery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to indus t r ial consumers must be used in the indus t ry concerned and must not be sold or transferred w i thout prior approval. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are seven ta r i ff bands: zero, 2.5%, 7.5%, 15%, 22.5%, 30%, and 42.5%. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i th quotas Proceeds from exports must be received w i t h in four months of sh ipment un less oth- erwise allowed by the BB. Exporters are permitted to retain 7.5% of the proceeds of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of the proceeds from other exports; they may use retained earnings for bona f ide business purposes, such as business travel abroad; participation in trade fairs and seminars; and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. They may also be used to set up offices abroad w i thout prior permission from the BB. Jo int ventures, other than in the garment indus t ry, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 80% of the ir export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and to place the rema in ing 20% in a bank account in domestic currency. Yes. Exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, wh i le others are restricted to ensure the supp ly of the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all banned or re- stricted items. Quotas are imposed on garment exports by the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports (since 1996) on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Pro- motion Bureau monitors quota use in order to reallocate un f i l l ed quotas. Export taxes Exports of ju te are taxed. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Adm in i s t ra t ive expenses Prior approval Yes. No prior permission is required for the rem i t tance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales, and of t ra in ing and consu l t ing fees of up to 1 % of sales. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BANGLADESH Commissions Quantitative limits Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad w i thout prior approval from the BB. No approval is required if loan agreements conform to Board of Inves tment (BOI) guidelines. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders w i thout the prior approval of the BB on receipt of applications from the companies concerned; applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet and prof i t-and- loss ac- count, a board resolution declaring d iv idends out of prof i ts derived from the no rmal business activities of the company, and an aud i to r 's certificate that tax l iab i l i t ies are covered. Au thor ized dealers may remit prof i ts of foreign f i rm s, banks, insurance com- panies, and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions operating in Bangladesh to the ir head office on receipt of applications supported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Yes. n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhu tan, Ind ia, Ma ld ives, Myanma r, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a year; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $1,000 a person a year. For new exporters, the ind ica t ive l im it for business travel is $6,000, wh i le established exporters are permitted to use balances held under the Export Retention Scheme (7.5% of ex- ports of ready-made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manu fac tu re rs pro- ducing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equ iva lent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the va lue of im- ports, respectively. There is an annual ceiling of $5,000 in both cases. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits Up to $10,000 may be obtained w i thout prior approva l. Larger amoun ts are subject to the approval of the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign currency for education is made ava i lab le up to the cost of t u i t i on and l i v i ng expenses, as estimated by the educational in s t i tu t ion concerned. No prior perm iss ion is required for the remittance of fees for undergradua te, postgraduate, and some pro- fessional courses. App l ica t ions for foreign exchange for study abroad are accepted upon ve r i f ica t ion of the ir bona fide na ture. Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Indus tr ial enterprises produc ing for local markets may rem it up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the p rev ious year's tax re turn. Foreign na t iona ls may freely remit up to 50% of net salary in connection w i th service contracts approved by the governmen t. The en t ire amount of the ir leave salaries and savings can also be freely remitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval BANGLADESH 73 Yes. Yes. Gamb l ing is prohibited in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange is ava i lab le for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a certificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level based on preva i l ing prices. Applications for foreign exchange for fam i ly maintenance abroad are accepted upon ver if ica t ion of the ir bona fide na ture. General approval is given for use of exporters against the foreign exchange retention entitlement and for travel allowance use by other residents. Quantitative limits Credit cards may be used up to amoun ts authorized for travel allowance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5% of the proceeds and to use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals work ing abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming in to their pos- session, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer w i t h in one month of the date of acquisition. However, returning residents may keep, in foreign currency accounts opened in the ir names, foreign exchange brought in at the t ime of return from abroad, provided that the amount does not represent proceeds from ex- ports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Residents may retain up to $5,000 brought into the coun try w i thout declaration. For- eign na t iona ls residing in Bangladesh con t inuous ly for more than six months are re- quired to surrender w i th in one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing the ir earnings w i th respect to business conducted in Bangladesh or serv- ices rendered wh i le in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange retainable as above may be used for travel abroad or bona fide bus i- ness purposes. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may buy Bangladesh securities through stock exchanges against pay- ment in free ly conver t ib le currency remitted from abroad through bank ing channels. Proceeds from sales, inc lud ing capital gains and d iv idends earned on securities pur- chased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Non- residents cannot issue securities in Bangladesh. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market ins t rumen ts These transac t ions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BANGLADESH On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transac t ions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments These transactions are subject to prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission. If an ins t rument is denominated in foreign currency, prior BB approval is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Authorized dealer banks may ob ta in hedging abroad against exchange rate risks on unde r ly ing trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export paymen ts deferred for more than 120 days require BB au thor iza t ion. To residents from nonresidents Deferred import paymen ts are permitted for up to 360 days in advance for capital ma- chinery and for up to 180 days for indus tr ial raw materials. Private indus tr ial un i ts may borrow funds from abroad w i thout the approval of the BOI if the interest rate does not exceed 4% above the LIBOR, if the repayment period is more than seven years, and if the down payment is less than 10%. All other borrowing by indus t r ial u n i ts requires prior BOI approval. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in specific cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Authorized dealers (i.e., commercial banks) may obtain short-term loans and over- draf ts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Banks may issue guarantees/sureties in favor of nonresidents in relation to perm iss ib le current transactions on behalf of residents. Receipt of guarantees/sureties by residents from abroad requires f u ll disclosure of the unde r ly ing transaction. All outward transfers of capital require approval, wh ich is sparingly granted for resident-owned capital. Inves tmen ts, except in the i n d u s t r i al sector, require approval. The Foreign Private Inve s tment (Promotion and Protection) Act (1980) provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemn i f ica t ion, protection against expropriation and na t iona l iza t ion, and guarantee for repatriation of inves tmen t. There is no ceiling on pr iva te inves tmen t. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to n ine years, depending on the location. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Requests for repa tr ia t ion of the proceeds from l iqu id a t ion of direct inve s tment (in un l is ted companies) are subject to prior sc ru t iny of the BB. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 75 Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident w i th funds from abroad are allowed. Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Loans Repa t r ia t ion of sales proceeds are subject to prior approval by the BB, wh ich is not no rma l ly granted. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Borrow ing by indu s t r ial enterprises in accordance w i th BOI gu ide l ines /app roval is allowed. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of t i t le to nonres iden ts by way of inhe r i tances is not restricted, but income from, and sale proceeds of, such assets are no rma l ly not t rans fe rab le abroad and are required to be used locally w i th prior authorization from the BB. A resident Bangladesh na t ional requires the prior approval of the government of Bangladesh for receiving any g i f t /endowment from a foreign donor. Inher i tances are to be disclosed to the BB. Net current income from estates inhe r i ted abroad are to be repa tr ia ted. Se t t lemen ts of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts No rma l ly not a l lowed, except for repaymen ts on bo r row ing for i n d u s t r i al inve s tmen ts according to BOI gu ide l ines. Transfer of assets The t rans fer of moveable personal effects is allowed. Transfer abroad by emigrants The no rmal t ravel a l lowance for residents app l ies. Transfer into the country by immigrants Permitted, subject to the dec lara t ion requ i rement in respect of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad The ma in tenance of these accounts is subject to no t i f ica t ion to the BB. Lending to non res iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Lend ing to nonres iden ts is not a l lowed, except w i th pr ior BB approval and in specific cases. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is subject to prior approval by the BB. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Interest rate controls Purchases are subject to pr ior app roval by the BB. Banks are required to ma in ta in interest rates on foreign currency deposits in l ine w i th in te rna t ional market rates. D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts n.a. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Beg inn ing J anu a ry 1997, the l im i ts that the BB places on each au tho r ized dea ler's net open position were set at 12.5% of cap i ta l. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non re s iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BANGLADESH L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad Domestic ins t i tu t ional investors cannot acquire investment assets abroad, Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions January 31. Au tho r ized dealers' net open position was set at 12.5% of cap i ta l, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Novembe r s, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados do l lar. Gold coins w i th face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited c ircu la t ion. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Barbados dollar is pegged to the U.S. do l lar, the in te rven t ion currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of the ir cross-rate re la t ionsh ips to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125% b u y i ng and 1.75% selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875% buy ing and 1.8125% se l l ing against the Canadian dollar, deutsche mark, and pound sterling. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) per iod ica l ly obtains fo rwa rd cover in the in ter- na t ional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central govern- men t's exchange risks associated w i th foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain fo rwa rd cover in the in te rna t ional markets. The CBB and commercial banks enter in to swap transac- t ions in U.S. dollars, wh i le commercial banks f ree ly sw i tch between nonreg ional currencies. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or th rough an ex ternal account in Barbados dollars. Se t t lemen ts w i th residents of CARICOM countries other than Guyana, Jamaica, Sur iname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM coun try. Settle- ments w i th residents of Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago shou ld be made in U .S. dollars. Since October 1, 1997, retail outlets have been perm i t ted to issue change in the same foreign currency in wh i ch purchases were made. Payment arrangements B i la te ral payment arrangements n .a. Regional arrangemen ts Clearing agreements Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under clearing arrangemen ts w i th regional mone tary authorities, the CBB curren t ly sells only three CARICOM coun t ry currencies: the Baham ian do l lar, the Eastern Car- ibbean do l la r, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jama ica dollars now float aga inst the U.S. dollar, and the CBB f ixes da i ly se l l ing rates based on rates supp l ied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are app l i- cable on ly to gove rnment transac t ions. Barter agreements and open accounts n .a. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BARBADOS Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t i es Exchange control app l ies to all coun tr ies and is adm in is tered by the CBB, wh ich dele- gates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and for- eign exchange for cash g i f ts. On October 1, 1997, fu r ther au tho r i ty was delegated to commercial banks in respect of current account transactions rang ing from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. The prev ious range was BDS$5,000 to BDS$250,000 for non trade f lows, wh i le the m ax imum for advance paymen ts of merchand ise impor ts was BDS$ 100,000. Trade controls are adm in is te red by the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry, Com- merce, and Business Deve lopment (MICBD). On A p r il 20, 1998, authorized dealers were perm i t ted to release fore ign currency up to the equ iv a l ent of BDS$5,000 for certain undocumen ted impo r ts from CARICOM and BDSS500 for undocumen ted non trade t ransac t ions, such as v i sa fees and subsc r ip t ions. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Controls on ex te rnal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Residents, other than the mone tary au tho r i t ie s, au thor ized dealers, and i n d u s t r i al us- ers, are not permitted to ho ld or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry or coins for num i sma t ic purposes. Any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an au thor ized dealer, un less exchange control approval is obtained for its re ten t ion. The impo r ta t ion of gold by residents is permitted for indu s t r ial purposes and is subject to customs du t ies and charges. Licenses to impo rt gold are issued by the MICBD. No license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required. Un t il September 30, 1997, travelers were permitted to take out up to BDSS200. Since October 1, 1997, travelers may take out up to BDS$500. U n t il September 30, 1997, trave lers were perm i t ted to take out foreign cu r rency notes and coins up to the va lue of BDS$500. Since October 1, 1997, travelers may take out up to BDS$1,000. Nonres ident v i s i to rs may freely export any foreign currency they p rev iou s ly b rought in. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Subject to specific cond i t ions under delegated au tho r i ty, authorized dealers may m a in t a in foreign currency accounts in the names of ind iv idu a ls and companies resi- dent in Barbados. Since October 1, 1997, certain receipts and paymen ts may be cred- ited and debited to fore ign currency accounts under conditions established at the t ime the account is opened. Other credits and debits requ i re i n d i v i d u al approva l. However, where au tho r i ty has not been delegated to au thor ized dealers, the permission of the CBB is required. Held abroad These accounts are pe rm i t ted, but perm iss ion of the CBB is requ i red. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts BARBADOS 79 Same regu la t ions app ly as for resident accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from the sale of fore ign currenc ies, w i th transfers from other external accounts, w i th bank interest, and w i th paymen ts by residents for wh ich the CBB has g iven general or specific perm iss ion. The accounts may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Barbados for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes and for any other payment covered by dele- gated au thor i ty to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require ind iv id- ual approva l. Balances on ex ternal accounts are convertible. Effec t ive October 1, 1997, nonresident holders of foreign currency accounts were no longer required to obtain central bank approval to remit funds abroad when the funds were not the result of payment for trade or nontrade transac t ions. The CBB may require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be w i thd r awn w i t h o ut app rova l, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement E f fec t ive October 1, 1997, authorized dealers may release fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of BDS$250,000 (c .i .f .) for advance paymen ts for impor ts into Barbados. Other advance paymen ts require the prior approval of the CBB. Advance import deposits n .a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen tary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to authorized dealers; pay- ments for impor ts of crude oil and its der iva t ives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements P resh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n .a. n.a. n.a. Certain impor ts require ind iv idu al licenses. Some items on the impor t- l icens ing l ist may be freely imported th roughout the year, wh i le others are subject to temporary restrictions (pa r t icu la r ly ag r icu l tu ral products, wh ich tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). I n d i v i d u al licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the p rov is ions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. V incen t, and Trinidad and To- bago whe ther the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from else- where. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 ag r icu l tu ral commodities. n .a. n.a. Not all goods that are subject to l icens ing are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions or import surcharges. Customs duties correspond to the CET of CARICOM. On Apr il 1, 1997, the range was changed to 5% to 25%, from 5% to 30%. There is a sur tax of 75% on some im- ports that had been p rev ious ly subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. On Janua ry 1, 1997, a VAT of 15% replaced the consump t ion tax, l u x u ry surcharge, and s tamp du t ies on impo r ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BARBADOS Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any coun try, in- c lud ing rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, Portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported w i t h o ut license. Yes. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prior approval is required for paymen ts above the established l im i ts, wh ich are also subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. The established l im i ts are (1) BDS$250,000 for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in is tra- t ive expenses, and the remittance of prof i ts and d iv idends; (2) BDS$ 100,000 for commissions, medical costs, and consu l t ing and legal fees; and (3) BDS$50,000 for interest payments, study abroad, and subscription and membership fees. Other specific l im i ts are listed below. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits The l im i ts are BDS$7,500 a person a calendar year for pr iva te travel and BDS$750 a day for business travel up to BDS$50,000 a person a calendar year. Yes. Nonres iden ts are allowed to rem it amoun ts to cover comm i tmen ts wh i le employed in Barbados. Nonresidents may have their pensions remitted to them wh i le residing outside Barbados. Nonresidents may take out amounts earned. Yes. The l im i ts are BDS$5,000 for cash g i f ts and BDS$50,000 for a l imony and other maintenance expenses. Yes. The l im i ts are BDS$7,500 a person a year for pr iva te travel and BDS$750 a day for business travel up to BDS$50,000 a person a year. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 81 Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Sale or issue abroad by residents Exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective inve s tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for credit operations. Controls on direct investment Inves tmen ts require exchange control approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions L iqu ida t ion of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documen t ing the va l id i ty of the remittance is subm i t ted, all l iab i l i t ies related to the inves tment have been dis- charged, and the original investment was registered w i th the CBB. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require exchange control approval. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes w i th funds from foreign currency sources; local currency f inanc ing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of th is amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated annual rate of return on the original foreign inves tment as fo l lows: for the last f ive years, at 8%; for the f ive years immed ia te ly preceding the last f ive years, at 5%; and for any period preceding the last 10 years, at 4%. Amoun ts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to rem i t tances of BDS$30,000 a year. Exchange control perm iss ion is required for the gran t ing or receiving of loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BARBADOS By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The l im it for g if ts is BDS$5,000 and BDS$30,000 a year for endowmen ts, inhe r i- tances, and legacies. Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants The l im it is BDS$30,000 a year. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance the ir domestic operations re- quires the approval of the CBB. Authorized dealers may assume short-term l i a b i l i ty positions in foreign currencies for the f inanc ing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transac t ions. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Accounts must be maintained w i th overseas correspondent banks. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Exchange control permission is required. Inves tment in local securities requires CBB approval. There is no reserve requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. For domestic cur- rency deposits in commercial banks, there is a cash reserve requirement of 5%. There is no l iqu id i ty requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. For domestic cur- rency deposits in commercial banks, there is a l iqu id i ty requirement of 25% (12% in treasury b i l ls, 8% in government debentures, and 5% in cash). Credit controls n .a. D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts he ld by non res iden ts Nonresident deposit accounts are treated the same as resident deposit acounts. D i f fe r- ential treatment is based on whe ther the amount is in domestic currency. Inves tment regulations n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts L im i ts are set by the CBB. Provisions specific to institutional investors Approval is required for investment of pension funds abroad. A 6% tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds w i th foreign companies that are not registered w i th the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1997 October 1. The l im it on the export of currency notes by a traveler from Barbados was increased to the equ iva lent of BDS$ 1,000 from BDS$500 in foreign currency notes, and BDS$500 in Barbados currency notes (from BDS$200). Further au thor i ty was delegated to commercial banks in respect of current account transactions. Banks were authorized to approve current transactions rang ing from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. The previous range was BDS$5,000 to BDS$250,000 for nontrade flows, wh i le the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Capital transactions BARBADOS 83 max imum for advance paymen ts for merchandise imports was BDS$ 100,000. Retail ou t le ts were perm i t ted to issue change to v is i to rs in the same foreign currency in w h i ch purchases were made. October 1. Non res ident holders of foreign currency accounts were no longer required to ob ta in central bank approval to rem it funds abroad when the funds were not the resu lt of payment for trade or non trade t ransac t ions. January 1. A VAT of 15% replaced the consump t ion tax, luxu ry surcharge, and s tamp du t ies on impo r ts. April 1. The range of the common external tar iff rates was changed to 5% to 25% from 5% to 30%. October 1. The l im it that the Securities Exchange of Barbados has been delegated au tho r i ty to approve for the purchase and sale of shares listed w i th the stock ex- changes in member states of CARICOM was increased to BDS$2 m i l l ion. Con tro ls on personal cap i tal movemen ts October L Commerc ial banks were allowed to approve cash g i f ts of up to BDS$5,000 a t ransac t ion. The p rev ious l im it was BDS$ 1,000. Prov is ions specific to i n s t i t u t i o n al inves tors October L The amount i n s t i t u t i o n al inves tors were a l lowed to invest in pension funds abroad was increased to the lesser of BDS$250,000 or 25% of local funds available for inve s tment each quar ter. Changes During 1998 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 20. Au thor ized dealers were permitted to release foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of BDS$5,000 for certain undocumen ted imports from CARICOM coun- tries and BDSS500 for undocumented nontrade transactions, such as visa fees and subsc r ip t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belarus is the Belarussian rube l. There are four exchange rates in effect: (1) the auction rate at the Interbank Currency Exchange (ICB) on wh ich the o f f ic ial exchange rate is based and at wh ich surrender of export receipts takes place; (2) the afternoon auction rate of the ICB market (set up in Janua ry 1998) where exporters may sell foreign exchange to the Na t ional Bank of Be larus (NBB) through banks after f u l f i l l i ng the surrender requirements; (3) the inter- bank market rate where the exchange rate may not exceed the off ic ial auction rate by more than 1%; and (4) a rate for ind iv idual cash transactions that is based on the Moscow interbank market. The off ic ial exchange rate of the rubel was managed w i th in an exchange rate band established in Janua ry 1996 w i th a fixed upper limit through mid-1996 of Rbl 13,100 per dollar and an upper l im it of Rbl 15,000 per dollar through end-1996. Depreciation of the rubel w i th in these l im i ts was allowed. In the period between end-February 1997 and end-February 1998, the authorities permitted the off ic ial rate to depreciate in nom inal terms from Rbl 22,800 to Rbl 32,670 per dollar. Most transac t ions take place through the interbank market exchange rate. The cash market rate and the afternoon auction rate are market determined, but the afternoon auction rate is l im i ted to the selling of foreign exchange by enterprises. Repa t r ia t ion of p ro f i ts in convertible currency is subject to a 15% tax payab le in con- ver t ib le currency. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same prov is ions as the spot market. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In accordance w i th the Agreement on the Es tab l ishment of a Payment Un ion of Mem- ber Countries of the CIS (1994) and b i la teral payment agreements between Belarus and the central banks of those countries, settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries are effected in the na t ional currencies of the parties invo lved in the settle- men ts, in the currencies of payment un ion member countries and in freely conver t ib le currenc ies, in accordance w i th leg is la t ion in effect w i t h in the terr i tory of the coun t ry. Settlements between Be larus and CIS member countries and the Baltic coun tr ies are effected us ing noncash procedures via correspondent accounts of au thor ized banks and central banks. In accordance w i th b i la teral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of A rmen ia, Azerba i jan, the Ky rgyz Repub l ic, La tv ia, L i thu an i a, Mo ldova, Ta j ik is tan, Uk ra ine, and Uzbek is tan, on ly settlements for operations ensu ing f rom the func t ions of central banks are effected via correspondent accounts of central banks. Settlements for all other accounts are effected via correspondent accounts of au tho r- ized banks. In accordance w i th b i la te ral payment agreements between the NBB and the cen tral banks of Es ton ia, Georgia, Kazakh s tan, Ru s s ia, and Tu rkmen i s tan, se t t lemen ts 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 85 between economic agents of these countries may be effected both via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and via correspondent accounts of central banks. On March 23, 1998, the NBB halted all rubel transactions between residents and nonresi- dents and between nonresidents and nonresidents. Effec t ive March 26, 1998, Belarus- sian rubel payments by nonresidents to residents were allowed again as before, as well as those paymen ts by residents to nonresidents, exc lud ing the payments for some groups of commodities for wh ich payment in foreign currency is now required. Belarus ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements w i th 14 countries, inc lud ing the CIS countries. Yes. There are arrangements w i th Moscow and various other regions in Russ ia. There is an agreement w i th Uzbekistan calling for the exchange of cotton from Uzbekistan for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements w i th Moldova and Ukraine. Barter trade of certain goods requires approval from the Commission of the Council of Ministers on the Issuance of Au thor iza t ion to Engage in Commodity-Exchange Op- erations. Barter agreements are effected at the level of economic agents. The Par l iament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for adm in is ter ing them. Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents are required to obtain a license from the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) to deal in precious stones and metals. Controls on ex ternal trade Permission for nonresidents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabinet of M in is te rs of Belarus. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonres iden ts may export up to the equ iva lent of 100 times the m i n im um wage. Any person may export Russ ian rubles up to the equivalent of 500 times the m i n im um wage set in Russ ia. Resident and nonresident na tu ral persons may export $500 in cash and any sum in trave ler's checks w i thout permission and any sum w i th the permission of an au tho r ized bank. Up to the p rev ious ly exported amount may be imported. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of foreign currency other than Russ ian rubles. For Russ ian rub les, up to the equ iva lent of 500 times the m in imum wage set in Russia may be imported. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BELARUS Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically W i thout declaring the sources of the ir foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks in Belarus authorized to transact in fore ign exchange. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval of the NBB is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Balances may be converted for paymen ts to impo rt goods, labor, and services; pay- ments for business trip expenditures and t ra in ing abroad; and repaymen ts of loans and interest. Nonbank f inanc ial organ iza t ions can convert balances to perform dea l ing operations, and insurance companies may do so to establish insu rance funds from net p ro f i ts. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Yes. n.a. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts w i th author- ized banks in Belarus. The source of the funds can be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sales of goods and services in the territory of Be larus, in c lud ing sales to resi- dents; debt-service paymen t; interest earned on balances in the accounts; f u n ds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from in- vestments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for inves tmen ts in the Ba l t ic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU, as we ll as for pay- ments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatri- ated or exchanged for Belarussian rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. App roval required n .a. Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Nonresident jur id ical persons may open "I" ( inves tmen t) accounts and "T" (curren t) accounts at authorized commercial banks. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may also open "C" (securities) accounts at au thor ized banks. I accounts may be credited w i th the Be laruss ian rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sales, d iv idends, resources from the l iqu ida t ion of enterprises, and compensation in the event of the na t iona l iza t ion of enterprises. Resources from I accounts may be used to purchase foreign currency, shares of enterprises, and p r iva t iza t ion checks. T accounts are used for current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign curren- cies and of goods and services, and resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt obligations of banks, are transferred into them. Resources from T ac- counts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expend i tures. Funds in C accounts are used for inve s tmen ts in securities issued by the Belarussian government and the NBB. Proceeds from the sale of freely convertible currencies and/or Russ ian rubles, as well as proceeds from the redemption or sale of government and NBB securities by nonresidents, are deposited in C accounts if the original purchases were made w i th payments from C accounts. Approval is required. Balances from I and C accounts may be converted in to foreign currencies, provided that the nonresident holds the government or NBB securities for a m i n im um period as prescribed by the NBB. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement App roval is required for (1) down paymen ts for goods or services exceeding $100,000; (2) paymen ts for imports more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 87 goods in Be larus, wh ich requ ire special permission f rom the M in i s t ry of Foreign Eco- nom ic Re la t ions (MFER) (for goods imported under barter or clearing arrangements, the period is 180 days); and (3) in terest paymen ts to nonres iden ts on returned down paymen ts when an original contract is not fu l f i l l ed. In September 1997, an import deposit requ i rement of 10% was in t roduced for a tem- porary period of f ive mon ths on a sma ll numb er of impor ted goods (e.g., meat, vodka, and chew ing gum ). Advance impo rt deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures n .a. Yes. Pos i t ive l ist Nega t ive l i st Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Impo rt licenses are required for impo r t ing certain pesticides, herbicides, and indu s t r i al wastes. The impo r t ing of radioactive or toxic wastes, as well as pub l ica t ions or videos that are against state morals, hea l th, or security, is proh ib i ted. Since Ap r il 1997, the au thor i t ies have required importers to obtain a license in order to app ly for an impo rt quo ta for e thyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. There are no cus toms barriers between Be larus and Russ ia, and a common trade policy for th i rd countries exists. The ta r i ff s t ruc tu re consists of rates of 1% to 5% that app ly to goods such as p lan ts, seeds, foods tu f fs, raw ma ter ia ls, ores, petroleum, and spare parts, and of rates of 40% to 100% that apply to goods such as weapons, ammun i t ion, precious metal products, carpets, and motor vehicles. On March 18, 1997, certain custom du ty rates were raised to ha rmon ize them w i th those applied by Russ ia. For example, the fo l low ing rates were raised: for apparel and c lo th ing, to 30% from 20%; for pou l t ry, to 30% from 25%; and the rate for refrigerators was raised by 5 percentage po in ts. There are nume rous exemptions. Regu lar import du ty rates app ly to coun tr ies w i th MFN status. Du t ies are applied at tw ice the MFN rate on impor ts from coun t r ies w i thout MFN status. Duties on imports from developing countries covered by Ru s s ia 's system of preferences are half the MFN rate or zero. On February 10, 1997, the l ist of goods to wh ich a preferen t ial reg ime does not app ly was expanded. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Impor ts of alcohol and tobacco products are effected by state monopolies. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts All proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in 120 days of sh ipp ing, i n c l u d i ng goods ex- ported under a barter or clearing contract. Special approval of the MFER is needed for longer periods of t ime. On June 4, 1997, the manda to ry su r render requ i rement was reduced to 30% f rom 50%, and most app l icab le exemp t ions were e l im ina ted. Documentation requirements A transaction certificate is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspec t ion n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes BELARUS Export bans exist for some medicinal herbs, art and antique collections, certain w i ld animals, and goods imported into Belarus on a human i ta r ian basis. Exports of certain goods, inc lud ing amber, ores and concentrates, and precious metals and stones, re- quire a license that is subject to the approval of the Precious Metals Committee of the Ministry of Finance. Mineral fertilizers and waste, and scrap of ferrous and nonferrous metals are subject to export quotas and licensing requirements. Customs duties for exports to non-CIS countries have been eliminated. VAT and ex- cise taxes are collected on excisable goods that are exported to CIS countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Other export taxes A rent payment applies for exported timber and products thereof. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most payments do not require prior approval and are not subject to quan t i ta t ive l im i ts. Informa t ion on the application of ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests is not available. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Ind iv idua ls (residents and nonresidents) are permitted to purchase up to $500 a day from an exchange office at the market exchange rate for tourist travel; however, per- sons who use their international credit cards for tourist travel expenses can purchase foreign exchange to settle the obligations on those cards. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona f ide expenses related to business trave l. Gambling/prize earnings n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All service export proceeds must be repatriated after 60 days, unless special permis- sion for a longer period of repatriation has been granted by the MFER. A requirement of 30% applies to receipts in freely convertible currencies and Russian rubles. Controls on capital and money market instruments The M in is try of Finance and the NBB es tab l ish procedures for transac t ions in securities. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 89 Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inves tment securities Controls on credit operations n .a. n .a. Commerc ial credits Ex ternal borrow ing by residents must be registered w i th the NBB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inves tment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign inves tment must be registered at the MFER, and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions must also register it at the NBB. In the case of insurance ins t i tu t ions, it must also be regis- tered at the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain ac t iv i t ies require special approval (license). When establishing an enterprise w i th foreign investments, the size of a foreign inves to r 's share is not restricted, except for insurance organizations and banks, where it may not exceed 49%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed fu ll repatriation of their in i t ial investment capital and p ro f i ts earned in Belarus. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad n.a. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad The opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the NBB. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial t rea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange n .a. n.a. n .a. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f f e r en t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts he ld by non res iden ts Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions Open fo re ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The same reserve requ iremen ts apply to both domestic and foreign currency deposits. n .a. n.a. n .a. n .a. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds BELARUS Changes During 1997 December 2. The au tho r i t ies permitted i n d i v i d u a ls to engage in cash foreign exchange transactions at a market-determined rate. February 10. The list of goods to wh ich a preferen t ial customs du ty rate does not ap- ply was expanded. March 18. Certain customs du ty rates were raised to ha rmon ize them w i th those ap- plied by Russia. September 15. A temporary ( f ive mon ths) import deposit requ irement of 10% was introduced on a sma ll number of imported goods. June 4. The manda tory surrender requ i rement was reduced to 30% from 50%, and most applicable exemptions were eliminated. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement January 22. The NBB established an add i t ional afternoon market at the ICB where enterprises, after f u l f i l l i ng the ir surrender requirements, could sell (but not purchase) foreign exchange th rough banks to the NBB through auctions. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 23. The NBB halted all Belarussian rubel transactions between residents and nonresidents and between nonresidents and nonresidents. March 26. Be laruss ian rubel payments by nonres iden ts to the residents were allowed again as before, as well as those by residents to nonresidents, excluding the payments for some groups of commodities for wh ich payment in foreign currency is now required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belgium is the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the currencies are at par. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Belgium participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th this agreement, Be lg ium and Luxembourg ma in ta in spot exchange rates between the ir currencies and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross-rates derived from the central rates expressed in ECUs. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any cur- rency, and they may deal among themselves and w i th residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. No. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Be lg ium applies exchange restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Yes. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 BELGIUM Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by international security restrictions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Ind iv idu al licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from member countries of the EU), including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, and non tex t i le products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with other EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA and also applies a system of m in imum import prices to foreign steel products quotas on a number of steel products from Russia and Ukraine, and quotas on a number of products from Ch ina (toys, shoes, ceramic, porcelain, and glassware). On Janua ry 1, 1997, the quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was e l im ina ted. Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most agricul- tural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes Export licenses are required only for a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for diamonds, and for some iron and steel products. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 93 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The pub l ic issue or sale of debt securities that are not of EU origin is restricted. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts The public issue or sale of money market securities and instruments that are not of EU origin is restricted. The public issue or sale of collective inves tment securities that are not of EU origin is restricted. The pub l ic issue or sale of ins trumen ts and claims that are not of EU origin is restricted. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No authorization is required for inward direct inves tment in Belgium, except for a takeover by or on behalf of a person, company, or ins t i tu t ion from a non-EU state, and the acquisition of Belgian flag vessels by sh ipp ing companies not hav ing their pr inc i- pal office in Be lg ium. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad No. No. No. No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 BELGIUM Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January L Au tho r iza t ion for imports of certain preserved foods tu f fs ( tuna, bonito, and sardines) was abolished. January L The quota on impor ts of steel products f rom Kazakhs tan was l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Currency Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency. The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of CARICOM member countries. The Belize do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of BZ$1 per US$0.50. A s tamp du ty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specific list of currencies in wh ich authorized in termed iar ies are permitted to deal w i th the pub l ic. These curren- cies include Barbados dollars, Canad ian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, U .S. dollars, and pounds sterling. Paymen ts to a CARICOM member coun try must be made in the currency of that coun try. Belize is a member of the CARICOM. Belize participates in the CMCF. The CBB is responsible for adm in is ter ing exchange control, wh ich applies to all countries. Au tho r i ty covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commer- cial banks in the ir capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in ap- p l ica t ions i n v o l v i ng subs tan t ial amoun ts is reference made directly to the CBB. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for aud it and record keeping. No. No. Residents may not hold gold except w i th specific au tho r iza t ion from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported w i thout the approval of the CBB. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZ$100. Amoun ts beyond these l im i ts requ ire the approval of the CBB, wh ich is l ibe ra l ly granted when ju s t i f ied. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad BELIZE Each traveler may take abroad up to the equ iva lent of BZ$400; v is i tors may take out up to the amount imported. Amoun ts beyond these l im i ts require the approval of the CBB, wh ich is liberally granted when ju s t i f ied. Each traveler may bring in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Banks must have permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may s t ipu la te that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be cred- ited to a blocked account. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. Prepayments for imports require au tho r iza t ion f rom the CBB; in most cases such au thor iza t ion is delegated to the commercial banks. The CBB ra t ions its sales of for- eign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential im- port items, such as fuel and Pharmaceu t ica ls. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Import taxes and/or tariffs For reasons of hea l th, s tanda rd iza t ion, and protection of domestic indus t r ies, impo rt licenses from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and ag r icu l tu ral produc ts, and certain househo ld and cons t ruc t ion products; such licenses are liberally adm in is tered. Import ta r i ff rates range from 5% to 35%, w i th a number of i tems (pa r t icu la r ly, agri- cu l tu ral inpu ts) en ter ing du ty free. Imports by most of the pub l ic sector and cer ta in nonp ro f it en t i t ies, impor ts of an emergency or hum an i t a r i an na tu re, and goods for reexport are exempt f rom impo rt du t ies; goods o r ig ina t ing f rom the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement du t ies rang ing f rom 15% to 25%. Specific du t ies and surcharges app ly to certain products. There is a 15% VAT. On Apr il 1, 1997, the import ta r i ff was reduced to a m a x im um of 30% f rom a m ax imum of 35%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 97 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of sh ipmen t, unless otherwise directed by the CBB. The CBB makes direct purchases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the trad i t ional practice of pur- chasing from commercial banks. No. No. Export licenses are required for live animals, excluding pets; f ish, crustaceans, and mollusks, excluding agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus f ru i ts; and sugar. Yes. Reexports and transsh ipmen ts are subject to a 3% customs adm in is tra t ion fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments The CBB rations its sale of foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for a few essential i tems, such as insurance. Commissions Prior approval Interest paymen ts Prior approval Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). App roval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. An income statement and declaration of d iv idends must be presented along w i th clear- ance from the CIT. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n .a. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits The l im i ts are (1) for nonbus iness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a cal- endar year; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a max i- mum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell the ir excess hold- ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Med ical costs S tudy abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments are made directly to a doctor or hosp i ta l, w i th original invoices or b i l ls sup- po r t ing the app l ica t ion. Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 BELIZE Subscriptions and membe rsh ip fees Indicative limits/bona fide test S im i lar requ i remen ts apply as for s tudy abroad. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Quantitative limits App roval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. App roval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Approval by the CBB is requ ired. n.a. n .a. n.a. App roval by the CBB is requ ired. The l im it for g i f ts is BZ$100 a donor, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments All cap i tal transfers requ ire the approval of the CBB, but control is l ibe ra l ly adm in is tered. Capital Transactions On cap i tal market securities On money market in s t rumen ts On co l lec t ive inv e s tm ent securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guaran tees, sure t ies, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 99 Inw a rd direct inv e s tm ent Inwa rd direct inves tment must be registered w i th the CBB for fu tu re repa tr ia t ion of p ro f i ts. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and import payments April 1. The m ax imum import tar iff was reduced to 30% from 35%. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc issued by the BCEAO. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01, which is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged w i th prior authorization of the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. There is an arrangement w i th Hungary. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Monetary and F inanc ial A f fa i rs in the MOF, in con junc t ion w i th the Directorate of External Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism. The MOF, however, in collaboration w i th the BCEAO, draws up the exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Au tho r iza t ion from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorab le ru l ing by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial A f fa i rs of the MOF, is required to hold, sell, impo r t, export, or deal in raw d iamonds and prec ious and sem iprec ious 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency BENIN 101 materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun try require prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF, wh ich is seldom granted. The export of CFAF banknotes by travelers is not prohibited. However, repurchase of exported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the sh ipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents lo- cated outside the WAEMU zone is s tr ic t ly forbidden. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demons tra t ing either the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Travelers may freely import CFAF banknotes. The amounts must be declared at cus- toms, however. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in fore ign banknotes and foreign currency trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized in termed iary bank w i th in eight days. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Accounts in foreign currency held by residents w i th domestic f inanc ial institutions are subject to pr ior au thor iza t ion by the MOF. Curren t ly, the law does not expressly forbid the ho ld ing of accounts in banks located abroad. It does, however, forbid any transfer that would cons t i tu te the amass ing of assets abroad by a resident, except where authorized by the MOF. Only nonresidents may hold convertible accounts w i thout restriction. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The law does not contain specific prov is ions regarding nonresident accounts in for- eign currency. In practice, the law is interpreted as requ ir ing prior au tho r iza t ion for these accounts from the MOF. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i r cu l a t ing outside the territories of the WAEMU zone, nonres ident accounts may not be credited or deb- ited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonres ident accounts are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 BENIN Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit the ir foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of pu r- chas ing foreign currency on the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts All impo r ts exceeding CFAF 500,000 are subject to the requ i remen t. Preshipment inspection All imports exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion are subject to inspection. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. Certain impor ts, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Customs du t ies consist of four bands: 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%. A s ta t is t ical tax of 5% is levied on the c . i .f. va lue of imports. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. State import monopoly Impor ts of pe tro leum products are made by a state company and licensed p r iva te operators. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Receipts must be collected w i th in 180 days of the arr ival of the sh ipment at its des t ina t ion. Proceeds mu st be surrendered to authorized banks w i t h in 30 days of the payment due date. They must then be surrendered to the BCEAO by the authorized intermediaries as transfers via the issu ing in s t i tu t ion. No. Yes. n.a. Proceeds must be domiciled w i th an authorized in termed iary bank when va lued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a s imp le au tho r iza t ion from the Directorate of Foreign Trade, wh ich issues a certificate of o r ig in, as needed. Exports of d iamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF, w i th the exception of articles w i th a small gold content, travelers' personal effects we igh ing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of th e ir face va lue and denom ina t ion). On Janua ry 29, 1997, exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and charcoal were banned. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 103 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for inv i s i- bles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona f ide tests. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits The transfer of funds to service loans requires prior approval if the loan itself was subject to approval. Payments for the depreciation of direct inves tment are not ex- pressly provided for in the regulation and, as such, require prior approval from the MOF. The l im i ts are CFAF 500,000 a tr ip for tourists and CFAF 75,000 a day for business travel. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediaries; for amounts exceeding the ind ica t ive l im i ts, approval by the MOF is required. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediaries, and for amounts exceeding the ind ica t ive l im i ts, by the MOF. Yes. Upon presentation of an appropriate pay voucher, a residence permit, and documents indicating fam i ly situation, foreigners working in Benin may transfer up to 50% of their net salary abroad if they live w i th their fam i ly in Benin, or up to 80% if their fam i ly is l iv ing abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized in termed iary banks. Family maintenance/alimony Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediaries, and for amounts exceeding the indicative limits, by the MOF. The same l im i ts apply as for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries are exempt from the requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Transfers of capital abroad are subject to restrictions. Capital may enter the WAEMU zone freely, except for direct investments, wh ich are subject to prior declaration, and some borrowing transactions, wh ich require prior approval. The fo l low ing transactions do not require au thor iza t ion: (1) borrowing guaranteed by the state; and (2) foreign shares comparable to securities whose issue, advertisement, or sale in Benin have already been authorized. With the exception of controls on foreign securities, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 BENIN On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents preceding measures do not apply to relations w i th France, Monaco, WAEMU member countries, and Operations Account countries. In addition, specific controls exist on deposit taking from foreign ind iv idua ls, companies, and ins t i tu t ions; and all adver- tisements to place funds abroad, underwr i te construction, or conduct real estate opera- tions abroad. These special measures also apply to relations w i th France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. The issue of securities in Benin by nonresidents is subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the MOF, as are sales of holdings in foreign companies or entities. A resident may acquire securities issued or sold by a nonresident hav ing prior au thor iza t ion only after said resident has obtained prior approval from the MOF. There is no restriction on the sale of securities cons t i tu t ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tment that is an outright sale between a nonresident and a resident, provided that the f inanc ial settlement of the transaction is in order. The settlement of a transaction in securities via transfer abroad or deposit to a non res iden t 's account requires a foreign exchange au tho r iza t ion, wh ich must be submitted to the MOF for approval, along w i th the appropriate documentation. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions and the outward transfer of funds for such purchases require the approval of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may freely sell securities of resident companies abroad. If, as a result of these transactions, companies established in Benin become foreign controlled, the foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to the MOF. The sale of securities cons t i tu t ing the l iqu ida t ion of a foreign inves tment must be declared before- hand to the MOF. Proceeds in foreign currency from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of such an investment must be surrendered to an authorized in termed iary bank. Bonds or other debt securities The same provisions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These sales are subject to prior approval by the MOF, except for sales cons t i tu t ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tmen t, wh ich are unrestricted. The transfer of proceeds from these transactions requires a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion, wh ich is to be submitted to the MOF along w i th the appropriate documentation. Purchase abroad by residents These operations are subject to prior approval by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may freely sell money market ins t rumen ts abroad. Sales cons t i tu t ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized bank ing intermediary. The issue of money market ins t rumen ts abroad by residents is subject to the controls applicable to borrowing. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Au thor iza t ion from the MOF is required. Purchase abroad by residents Au tho r iza t ion from the MOF is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These ins t rumen ts are v i r tu a l ly unknown in Benin. They are subject to the general controls applicable to securities and inves tmen ts. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requ ires prior approval by the MOF. Such approval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized in te rmed ia r ies or for borrowing under specific cond i t ions in terms of the amount and interest rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inv e s tm ent Inwa rd direct inv e s tm ent Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Pu rchase abroad by residents BENIN 105 Gran t ing of such credits is subject to the following provisions. First, claims resulting f rom exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i t h in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the com- mercial contract. In general, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 180 days fo l low ing the a r r ival of the merchandise at its destination. Second, claims result- ing from service prov is ion must also be collected and subsequen t ly surrendered on the foreign exchange market w i t h in two mon ths of the payment due date, wh ich is not subject to adm in i s t ra t ive l im i t s. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is u s u a l ly au thor ized, subject to pres- entation of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial operation or provision of the service and of the payment due date. The gran t ing of f inanc ial credits is subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the MOF. The t rans fer of funds abroad for t h is purpose requires a foreign exchange au tho r iza t ion, subm i t ted to the MOF for approva l, along w i th the appropriate documen ta t ion. These credits may be freely granted. Transfers of such funds must be processed through an au thor ized in te rmed ia ry. However, if these operations take place between a direct inves tment company established in Ben in and its parent company located abroad, they are considered direct inv e s tm en ts and are therefore subject to pr ior dec lara t ion to the MOF. The transfer abroad of funds needed to service a loan is subject to au thor iza t ion if the loan itself requires p r ior approva l. The request for approval mu st be accompanied by the necessary proof of the v a l i d i ty of the t ransac t ion, i.e., au tho r iza t ion to borrow, references of loan disbursement records, and other related informa t ion. The g ran t ing of gua ran tees, back ing, and security is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the MOF. Ou tward transfers of the funds in ques t ion requ ire foreign exchange au tho r iza t ion, wh i ch mu st be subm i t ted to the MOF for approva l, along w i th the ap- propr ia te documen ta t ion. These f a c i l i t i es are f ree ly granted, and the f u n ds invo lved must be transferred from abroad by an au thor ized in te rmed ia ry. However, if these operations take place be- tween a direct inve s tment company es tab l ished in Ben in and its parent company lo- cated abroad, they are considered direct inve s tmen ts and are therefore subject to pr ior declaration to the MOF. Inves tment abroad by a resident, inc lud ing the purchase of real property, is subject to pr ior approval by the MOF. The investor must subm it a wr i t ten request ind ica t ing the authorized in te rmed ia ry charged w i th making the paymen t. Whe ther the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These inv e s tm en ts are subject to pr ior dec lara t ion to the MOF, wh ich has a two -mon th period du r ing w h i ch it may request pos tponement of projects. The t rans fer of a direct inve s tment by one non res ident to ano ther nonres ident is also sub ject to prior dec la ra t ion. Proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu id a t ion of fore ign direct inve s tmen ts or the sale of real p rope r ty may be f ree ly transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in f rancs upon p resen ta t ion of the requ ired documen ta t ion to the MOF and receipt of its re- sponse. The l iqu id a t ion of inve s tmen t s —whe ther inwa rd or ou twa rd —mu st be de- clared to the M i n i s t ry w i t h in 20 days of each t ran sac t ion. Inv e s tm ent abroad by a resident, in c lud ing the pu rchase of real proper ty, is subject to pr ior app roval by the MOF. The inves tor mu st s u bm it a w r i t ten request ind i c a t ing the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BENIN authorized in termed iary charged w i th mak ing the paymen t. Whe ther the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. There are no restrictions on purchases, except in the case of direct inves tment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of foreign direct inves tmen ts and the sale of real property may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the appropr ia te documen ta t ion to the MOF and receipt of its response. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Lend ing by residents to nonresidents requires the pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The ind iv idu a ls concerned may not engage in such operations as a regu lar profession w i thout f irst being licensed and inc luded in the l ist of f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. The borrower mu st ob ta in prior au tho r iza t ion from the MOF if the amount of the loan exceeds CFAF 50 m i l l ion and if the interest rate exceeds the no rmal market rate. Loans contracted to f inance imports and exports are exempt from au tho r iza t ion. W i th the exception of inheritances and legacies, payment of wh ich is generally ex- pressly authorized, other operations require prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Imm ig ran ts who have obtained resident status must obtain prior au tho r iza t ion from the MOF for the settlement of debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may transfer a m a x im um of CFAF 250,000 a person w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion. Amoun ts over and above th is ce i l ing may be transferred w i th au tho r iza t ion from the MOF. Bo r row ing abroad Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks and f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions are not authorized to ho ld l iqu id assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to cover current operations. These transactions may be freely conducted in the case of commercial credits. For loans and f in an c i al credits or the purchase of securities issued abroad, pr ior approval by the MOF is required. Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Domestic lend ing denominated in foreign exchange or purchases of fore ign-currency- denom ina ted securities issued in Benin requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion by the MOF. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases require prior approval by the MOF. Yes. The same regu la t ions app ly as for foreign inv e s tm en t. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are no p ruden t ial ratios; open positions resu lt th rough special derogations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 107 Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Exports and export proceeds January 29. Exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and char- coal were proh ib i ted. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bhu tan is the Bhutanese ngu l t rum. The Ind ian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged The n g u l t r um is pegged to the Ind ian rupee at a rate of Nu 1 per Re 1. The rates for currencies o ther than the Ind ian rupee are determined on the basis of the p reva i l ing quo ta t ions by the Reserve Bank of Ind ia for those currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The M i n i s t ry of Finance (MOF) controls external transac t ions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. The MOF has delegated to the Royal Monetary Au tho r i ty (RMA) the au thor i ty to release foreign exchange (other than Ind ian rupees) for current transactions. The RMA is charged w i th imp l em en t ing the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approv ing the use of foreign exchange for paymen ts for inv is ib le transactions. Paymen ts and remittances by residents to nonresidents other than in cash and t rav- eler's checks are required to be channeled th rough au tho r ized banks in B h u t a n. International security restrictions No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Impor ts of gold and s i lver, up to s t ipu la ted quan t i t ie s, by Bhu tanese c i t izens are permitted. Imports beyond th is requires special permission from the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The impo r ta t ion and exportation of cash and securities are subject to dec lara t ion of va lue at the customs po int of en t ry in to, and depar ture f rom, Bhu t an. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign currency notes purchased from au tho r ized banks or declared on en t ry may be exported free ly. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Foreign exchange budget BHUTAN Resident Accounts Yes. n.a. n.a. 109 The following categories of persons are permitted to open and maintain dollar- denominated foreign currency accounts w i th au thor ized banks in Bhu tan: (1) d ip loma t ic missions in Bhu tan and the ir expatriate employees, (2) representative offices of donor agencies and the ir expatriate employees, (3) th i rd -coun t ry contracting f i rms and the ir expatriate employees engaged in executing projects f inanced by donor agencies, and (4) any person who is the national of a th ird country and who is resident in Bhu t an. Approval of the RMA is required to open these accounts. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments An import license issued by the MOF is required for the impor ta t ion of capital and intermediate goods from countries other than Ind ia. On August 21, 1997, B h u t an adopted new foreign exchange regulations, mak ing foreign exchange ava i lab le for most current account purposes. Foreign exchange for all payments related to mer- chandise imports is automatically made available by authorized banks against impo rt licenses. Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. In 1997, the MOF issued rules and procedures for impor ts of goods from th i rd coun- tries to replace the former "trade license for import" introduced j o i n t ly by the M i n i s t ry of Trade and Indus t r ies and the D iv is ion of Revenue and Customs. The rules and pro- cedures were introduced to streamline the procurement system and fu r th er the process of trade l ibe ra l iza t ion. n .a. n.a. Imports from Ind ia are free from tar iffs and are subject only to the Bhu tan sales tax. Tax rates range from zero for essential commodities to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than Ind ia are subject to tar iffs. The m a x im um ta r i ff rate is 30%, w i th the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alco- holic beverages and sp i r i ts (100%). Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution no BHUTAN Surrender requ iremen ts Export taxes Proceeds in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA either directly or th rough the Bank of Bhu tan w i t h in 90 days. Export taxes are applied on ly to exports of unprocessed t imbe r, apples, oranges, and cardamom. Exports to countries other than Ind ia receive a rebate at rates rang ing from 5% to 20% of the c .i .f. va lue, w i th the lowest rate app ly ing to unprocessed p r ima ry products and the highest rate app ly ing to processed products. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system n .a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All inv i s ib le paymen ts, other than those made in Ind ian rupees, mu st be approved by the RMA. Under the new foreign exchange regu la t ions adopted on Augu st 21, 1997, the RMA is charged w i th setting l im i ts ( ind ica t ive in most cases) up to wh ich foreign exchange can be made ava i lab le for payments for inv i s ib le transactions. Medical costs Quantitative limits S tudy abroad costs Foreign workers' wages Prior approval L im i ts are prescribed by the RMA for the cost of t rea tmen t, med ic ine, and l i v i ng expenses. Bhutanese students who have secured adm iss ion to un ive r s i t ies and i n s t i t u t i o ns in th i rd countries for studies or for t ra in ing are perm i t ted to purchase foreign exchange from au tho r ized banks for the ir fees, stipends, and other expenses. Any na t ional of a th i rd coun t ry who, w i th the prior approval of the royal government of Bhu tan, is employed d i rec t ly by a pub l ic or p r iva te o rgan iza t ion in Bhu t an is per- mitted to rem it his or her salary and sav ings in foreign exchange th rough an author- ized bank. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Foreign exchange proceeds of any receipts or ho ld ings by Bhu tanese c i t izens and companies shou ld be repatriated to Bhu tan by t rans fe r r ing such c la ims and f u n ds to au tho r ized banks in Bhu t an. A ll receipts from inv i s ib le transactions in currencies other than the I n d i an rupee must be surrendered to the RMA. Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal ma rket securities Shares or other securities of a partici- paling nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions All cap i tal transac t ions mu st be approved by the RMA. Yes. n .a. n .a. Yes. n .a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN in Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n .a. n.a. Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments August 21. Bhu tan adopted new foreign exchange regulations, making foreign ex- change available for most current account purposes. Payments for invisible transactions and August 21. Under the new foreign exchange regulations, the RMA has been g iven the current transfers power to set l im i ts (indicative in most cases) up to wh ich foreign exchange can be made available for payments for inv is ib le transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Currency The currency of Bolivia is the boliviano. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing The o f f ic ial selling rate is determined at auctions held da i ly by the Central Bank of Bo l iv ia (CBB). The official exchange rate is the average of the bid rates accepted in the latest auction and applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auc- tions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves in the CBB. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auc- tioned and a floor price below wh ich the CBB w i ll not accept any bids. This floor price is the off ic ial exchange rate and is based on the exchange rates of the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and dollar. The CBB is required to offer in all auctions un i ta ry lots of $5,000 or multiples thereof; the m in imum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the max imum and m in imum bids have been less than 2%. Economic agents may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. All pub l ic sector in s t i tu t ion s, inc lud ing pub l ic enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the CBB auction market. Sales of foreign exchange by the CBB to the pub l ic are subject to a comm iss ion of Bs 0.01 per $1 over its b u y i ng rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Bo l iv ia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela mu st be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the CBB and the central bank of the coun try concerned, w i t h in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. The M in- istry of Finance (MOF), together w i th the CBB, is in charge of approv ing pub l ic sec- tor purchases of foreign exchange for debt-service paymen ts. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax that varies according to the gross va lue of sale of gold bu l l ion: 7% on the gross va lue of sale of gold bu l l ion for o f f ic ial 1 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 1 13 quotations larger than $700 a troy ounce; 1 % for official quotations between $400 and $700; and 4% for off ic ial quotations of less than $400 a troy ounce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Letters of credit The LC has to be opened at a bank in the Bo l iv ian banking system. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports are controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Bo l iv ia has a general un i fo rm import tar iff of 10%. A tariff of 5% is applied to capital goods and a rate of 2% is applied to imports of books and printed matter. Donations of food, inc lud ing wheat, are exempt from the import ta r i f f. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Repa t r ia t ion requ iremen ts were e l im ina ted on J u ly 30, 1997. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 BOLIVIA Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Surrender requirements were eliminated on Ju ly 30, 1997. No. No. Exports other than hydrocarbons are subject to an inspection fee of 1.55% for non- trad i t ional products and 1.6% for traditional products; these fees are paid by the gov- ernment and not by the exporters. No. There is a system of tax rebates for indirect taxes and import du ty paid on inpu ts of exported goods and services, inc lud ing the du ty component of depreciation of capital goods used. Exporters of small items whose va lue in Bo l iv ia 's annu al exports is less than $3 m i l l ion receive tax rebates of 2% or 4% of the f.o.b. export va lue under a simplified procedure, and other exporters receive tax and import du ty rebates based on annua l ly determined coefficients that reflect their documented cost structure. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Profit remittances are subject to a 12.5% tax, wh ich is computed as equ iva lent to the 25% income tax times the presumed net profit of 50% of the amount remitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies may retain the proceeds from their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, inc lud ing those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Transactions No. No. No. All foreign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autono- mous entities, and credits to the private sector w i th off ic ial guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the MOF and to control by the CBB. All proceeds of borrow- ings from foreign pub l ic sector agencies must be surrendered to the CBB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad BOLIVIA 115 Yes. No. No. No. No. Financial in s t i tu t ions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inpu ts for the external sector w i th resources from in terna t ional f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. Effec t ive December 23, 1997, all overseas credits of less than a two-year term became subject to reserve requirements. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 80% of the value of the banks' net worth minus their fixed assets. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Bo l iv ia was reclassified to "managed floating" from "independently floating." Exports and export proceeds July 30. Repatriation and surrender requirements were eliminated. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions December 23. All overseas credits w i th terms of less than two years became subject to reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (Position as of June 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the convertible marka (KM), wh ich was introduced for electronic payments on August 12, 1997, and in banknotes beginning June 22, 1998. The deutsche mark circulates widely in the two constituent entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, the Croatian kuna circulates widely in the Croatian ma jor i ty area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Yugoslav dinar circulates in the Republika Srpska. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged The convertible marka is pegged to the deutsche mark at KM 1 per DM 1. The Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (CBBH) no longer publishes indicative exchange rates for other currencies. The CBBH guarantees unrestricted convertibility of con- vertible marka for deutsche mark. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. Exchange control authorities There are no foreign exchange controls in place for transactions in convertible marka. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency n.a. There are no l im i ts on the amount of cash that may be taken across in te rna t ional borders. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 117 Held domestically Held abroad Ind iv idua ls and exporters may hold foreign exchange in accounts w i th commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. Legal entities may hold accounts abroad related to their business. Approval is required from the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) in the two entities. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. All importers in the Federation must be registered w i th a local court and the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade (MFT). An importer may purchase foreign exchange to pay for for- eign goods and services w i thout draw ing on foreign exchange held in bank accounts. Also, the MFT classifies goods into three regimes: free; subject to quotas (for the protection of local indus try); and banned (for health, environmental, or military rea- sons). In the Repub l ika Srpska, importers must use all foreign exchange held in bank accounts before they are entitled to purchase any fur ther foreign exchange from a commercial bank or from the National Bank of Republika Srpska (NBRS). Commer- cial banks ration foreign exchange, w i th priority given to raw materials and goods that meet basic hum an needs. Restrictions are imposed on the importation of goods of wh ich domestic production is s ign if ican t. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l ist Negative l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quo tas n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n .a. n .a. Yes. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. Exporters in the Federation must be registered w i th the MFT and w i th a local court. Exporters in the Repub l ika Srpska must be registered w i th the NBRS and a local court. The MFT imposes certain controls on the reimportation of some exports. Export taxes Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. No. Payments of pensions from Germany were o f f i c i a l ly resumed in December 1995 fol- low ing an agreement by wh i ch the CBBH provides documen ta t ion to Ge rmany th at the pensions are being paid by the commerc ial banks under its ju r i sd i c t ion to the workers concerned. Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. Yes. Only ju r id ical persons can receive these credits; credit for more than three mon ths must be registered w i th the CBBH. By residents to nonresidents On ly p ruden t ial regu la t ions on banks app ly. Controls on direct investment No. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Fu ll repatriation of capital is perm i t ted, after comp l iance w i th tax laws. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange n .a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA n9_ D i f fe ren t ial t rea tment of deposit accounts held by non res iden ts Investment regulations Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts n .a. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement August 12. Electronic paymen ts for the conve r t ib le ma rka were introduced. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement June 22. Convertible ma rka banknotes were in troduced. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of February 28, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana pu la. External loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990 are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Sharing Scheme (FERSS). Under the scheme, risks associated w i th exchange rate f luc tua t ions up to 4% are fu l ly borne by the borrower, while the next 6% and the following 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government on ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, re- spectively. Risks associated w i th exchange rate f luc tua t ions in excess of 15% are fu l ly borne by the government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pu la on the same basis. Under the FERSS, borrowers obtain foreign exchange for servicing their external debt at exchange rates that may d i f fer from the market rate by more than 2%. The scheme is to be phased out once the existing loans are fu l ly repaid. No new loans will be issued under the scheme. The exchange rate of the pula is determined w i th reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising the SDR and currencies of the coun t ry 's regional t rad ing part- ners. The central bank deals in four currencies: the dollar, the South Afr ican rand, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. On February 17, 1997, foreign exchange bu- reaus were licensed to deal in foreign currencies. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and the ma tu r i ty dates of forward contracts/transactions are not restricted by exchange controls, but instead left to commercial judgmen t. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la te ral payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must no rma l ly be made or received in a foreign currency or th rough a nonresident-held pu la account in Bo tswana. Effec- t ive February 25, 1998, residents were permitted to make paymen ts for goods and services sourced from outside Botswana us ing pula-denominated checks, provided traders outside Botswana are w i l l ing to accept such checks. Banks in Botswana are, in tu rn, authorized to settle such checks when sent for collection by banks outside Botswana, subject to suppo r t ing documen ta t ion for checks in amoun ts exceeding P 10,000. Botswana is a signatory to var ious bilateral trade agreements: Ch ina, the Czech Repub l ic, Repub l ic of Korea, Ma law i, Roman ia, Russ ia, the Slovak Repub l ic, the Federal Repub l ic of Yugo s lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro), Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Operative Yes. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 121 Inoperative Regional arrangemen ts Yes. Bo tswana is a member of the SACU, wh ich allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on trade-related payments among the SACU countries. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. n.a. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The Bank of Botswana administers exchange control on behalf of the government of Bo tswana. For practical/operational purposes, several adm in is tra t ive powers of the Bank of Bo tswana have been delegated to commercial banks. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Dealing in gold is restricted and may only be dealt w i th in terms of Sections 3 and 4 of the Exchange Control Regu la t ions, wh ich state that only authorized dealers are perm i t- ted to deal in gold. Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Res iden ts are allowed to export up to P 10,000 a person a day. Residents may take out up to the equ iva lent of P 10,000 a tr ip. V is i tors may take out any foreign currency that they brought in w i th them. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent, temporary residents, and nonresidents. These accounts facilitate foreign receipts and paymen ts for approved transac t ions, w i thout hav ing to convert foreign currency re- ceipts in to pu la and vice versa, and to protect against f luc tua t ions in exchange rates. Between February 17, 1997 and February 24, 1998, commercial banks were allowed to open foreign currency accounts in any currency at the ir discretion, up to the equ iva lent of P 1 m i l l ion for ind iv idua ls and P 10 m i l l ion for companies. On February 25, 1998, the restriction on the specified foreign currencies was removed, and commerc ial banks were authorized to open foreign currency accounts for the ir customers for any amount in any currency at the discretion of banks. n.a. The Bank of Bo tswana may authorize residents to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th banks abroad in cases where there is a proven legitimate commercial need for such f a c i l i ty, e.g., payment for impor ts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts J u r i d i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 BOTSWANA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Yes. Yes. Nonres iden ts are permitted to open nonres ident pu la accounts in Bo tswana w i thout pr ior Bank of Botswana approva l. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement Advance paymen ts are perm i t ted for a leg i t ima te commercial need. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Paymen ts for impor ts of va lue exceeding P 10,000 a transac t ion requ ire suppo r t ing documentation before foreign exchange is released. Yes. n.a. n.a. As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a common ex ternal ta r i ff on ly on im- ports from outside the SACU. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pu la account w i th in six months of the date of exportation. Effective February 25, 1998, m ax imum l im i ts for exports free of paymen ts increased for the fo l low ing goods: bona fide non- monetary g if ts, P 20,000 for a permanent resident a year; rejected goods, P 100,000 a transaction, subject to prov id ing documentary evidence; and commercial samples (i.e., goods for exh ib i t ions or other promotional purposes), P 150,000 a transaction. Re ten t ion of export proceeds for up to one year to f inance certain transactions may be permitted by the Bank of Botswana on a case-by-case basis. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, ma in ly for revenue reasons. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires permits. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on most current account transactions. However, authorized deal- ers must require documentary evidence for paymen ts in excess of P 10,000 a transac- tion to establish that the payment is for a leg i t ima te purpose and a current account transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Interest paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits P ro f i t /d iv idends Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Quantitative limits Payments for travel BOTSWANA 123 Au tho r ized dealers are permitted to authorize interest paymen ts at a rate not exceeding 2% a mon th on impor t-re la ted payment charges, i.e., interest charged on arrears, but pr ior Bank of Bo tswana approval is requ ired if the charge is more than 2% a mon th. Yes. Yes. Au tho r ized dealers may au thor ize remittances of in ter im d iv idends w i thout reference to the Bank of Bo tswana for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange and may approve other rem i t tances of d iv idends /p ro f i ts w i thout reference to the Bank of Bo tswana subject to satisfactory suppor t ing documentation. The repayment may not be more than P 2 m i l l ion for a company and P 200,000 for i n d i v i d u a l s. Permanent and temporary residents are now permitted to retain unused foreign ex- change travel fac i l i t ies in foreign currency notes, coins, or trave ler's checks up to the equ iva lent of P 10,000 instead of P 2,000. Any excess amount must be surrendered to an authorized dealer w i th in six months of the date of re tu rn. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident may retain for fu tu re travel use is the equ iva lent of P 10,000 in currency or trave ler's checks. Any excess amount must be surrendered w i th in six mon ths of the date of return. Effec t ive February 25, 1998, fore ign currencies received in payment for goods and services in Bo tswana by traders may be surrendered in 30 days instead of 3 days. Capital Transactions Purchases should be financed by funds from nonresident sources. Nonres iden t- controlled companies may make in ternal portfolio inves tmen ts, wh ich need not be f inanced w i th funds from external sources. The m ax imum ho ld ing by a nonres ident por tfo l io inves tor in the stock of any one company listed on the Botswana Stock Ex- change is l im i ted to 10% of total issued and pa id -up stock. The aggregate sharehold- ing by nonres iden ts may not exceed 55% of the free stock (that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by nonresident direct investors) of such a company. Nonresidents are permitted to issue long-term, pula-denominated bonds traded on the Bo tswana Stock Exchange. However, prior approval of the Bank of Bo tswana and the Bo tswana Stock Exchange is needed before bonds can be issued. Ind iv idu a ls and bus iness entities may invest abroad up to P 1 m i l l ion and P 30 m i l- l ion, respectively, in offshore securities. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Non res iden ts are not perm i t ted to buy the mone tary in s t rumen ts used by the Bank of Bo tswana to absorb excess l i q u i d i t y. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 BOTSWANA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The same conditions apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents The same conditions apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Nonresident-controlled companies (including branches of foreign companies) can borrow locally from all sources up to P 1 million. Banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions in Botswana are permitted to grant loans and other credit facilities to nonresident- controlled entities up to 10:1 debt-to-equity ratio (after the in i t ial tranche of P 1 million), w i thout prior authorization from the Bank of Bo tswana. Authorized dealers are permitted to receive loan funds from nonresident sources on behalf of the permanent resident customers up to an equivalent of P 200,000 and P 2 million in respect of ind iv idua ls and companies, respectively, w i thout any prior reference to the Bank of Botswana. Interest on these loans is restricted to 1 % above the relevant LIBOR and 1/2% above the bank prime lending rate for foreign- denominated and pula loans, respectively. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. To residents from nonresidents The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Yes. Yes. Au thor ized dealers may make foreign currency available to ind iv idua ls and companies of amounts of up to P 1 m i l l ion and P 30 m i l l ion, respectively, for either acqu i r ing interest in existing business ventures or establishing new business. Companies must have been in operation for two years and registered w i th the Commissioner of Taxes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds up to P 100 m i l l ion may be repatriated immed ia te ly, but the excess of that amount may be repatriated in tranches to be agreed upon w i th the Bank of Botswana. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Purchases l im i ted to P 1 m i l l ion for ind iv idu a ls and P 30 m i l l ion for bus iness en t i t ies are allowed, provided they use the ir foreign exchange allowances. n .a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents This is subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts of P 200,000 for i n d i v i d u a ls and P 2 m i l l i on for companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 125 G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents The same conditions apply as for loans. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Botswana. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad These accounts may only be ma in ta ined by authorized dealers. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Nonresident-controlled companies ( inc lud ing branches of foreign companies) can borrow locally from all sources up to P 500,000. Banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions in Botswana are permitted to grant loans and other credit facilities to nonresident- controlled entities up to 10:1 debt-to-equity ratio (after the in i t ial tranche of P 1 m i l l ion ), w i thout prior authorization from the Bank of Bo tswana. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Au thor ized dealers are permitted to make these loans to any customer in Botswana. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange A special dispensation has been made perm i t t ing dual l is t ing of scripts of companies incorporated outside Bo tswana and listed in reputable in terna t ional stock markets on an open register basis. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 10% of the core capital of a bank. On nonresident assets and liabilities On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-ma tch ing regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions n.a. n .a. n.a. The l im it is 70% of the inves to r 's assets outside Botswana. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 February 17. Foreign exchange bureaus (bureaux de change) were licensed to deal in foreign currencies. February 17. Commercial banks were authorized to open on-shore foreign currency accounts in any foreign currency of the customer's choice, up to the equivalent of P 1 m i l l ion for ind iv idua ls and P 10 million for companies. The total amount of school fees paid by an employer on behalf of an employee's dependent studying outside Botswana are to be treated as part of the employee's remuneration or gross earning and accordingly debited to the temporary resident's account on payment. February 17. The m ax imum l im i ts for exports free of payments increased for the fol- low ing goods: bona f ide nonmone tary g i f ts, P 10,000 a permanent resident a year; rejected goods, P 50,000 a transaction, subject to prov id ing documentary evidence; and commercial samples (i.e., goods for exh ib i t ions or other promo t ional purposes), P 10,000 a transac t ion. Con tro ls on cap i tal and money market i n s t r um e n ts February 17. The dua l - l is t ing of scripts of in terna t ional companies listed on reputable recognized in te rna t ional stock markets was permitted on an "open register basis," ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 BOTSWANA Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions subject to meeting the requ i remen ts of the Bo tswana Stock Exchange. The res tr ic t ion of nonresidents to the 5% share ho ld ing of a listed company and the aggregate of 49% holding of the "free stock" of any listed company does not app ly to share ho ld ing in a foreign dual-listed company in Bo tswana. February 17. The local f in an c ing of corporate bodies and b ranches resident in Bo tswana that are controlled by nonresidents increased to P 1 m i l l ion from P 500,000. February 17. Banks were authorized to sell foreign currency to residents who w i sh to invest outside Bo tswana up to a l im it of P 10 m i l l i on (up from P 1 m i l l ion) for com- panies and other corporate bodies a calendar year. Amoun ts exceeding these l im i ts must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Income from such inves tmen ts must be reported to the Comm iss ioner of Taxes and sale proceeds on f i n al l i q u i d a t i o n, if not reinvested, must be repatriated to Botswana. February 17. The i n i t i al tranche (an amount t h at a nonres iden t-con tro l led en t i ty can borrow w i thout h av ing b rought cap i tal from ex ternal sources) was increased to P 1 m i l l i o n. The 4:1 deb t- to-equ i ty ra t io w i ll app ly after the i n i t i al t ranche of P 1 m i l l ion. Any app l ica t ion for local f inanc ing support in excess of the prescribed l im it requ ires pr ior app roval from the Bank of Bo tswana. Prov is ions spec if ic to i n s t i t u t i o n al inves tors February 17. The m a x im um l im it for por tfo l io inve s tment by i n s t i t u t i o n al inv e s tm ent offshore increased to 70% from 65% of the total asset po r t fo l io. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1998 February 25. The m a tu r i ty dates of forward contracts w i ll no longer be restricted by exchange controls, but instead le ft to commercial judgm ent of the commercial banks subject to banks adher ing to the foreign exchange exposure l im i t s. February 25. Residents were permitted to make paymen ts for goods and services sourced from outside Bo tswana u s i ng pu la -denom ina ted checks, provided traders outside Bo tswana are w i l l i ng to accept such checks. Banks in Bo tswana are, in t u r n, au tho r ized to settle such checks when sent for collection by banks outside Bo tswana, subject to suppo r t ing documen ta t ion for checks of amoun ts in excess of P 10,000. February 25. The l im i ts on foreign currency accounts that may be opened w i th banks in Bo tswana have been removed. Residents are free to open foreign currency accounts for any amount at the discretion of banks. February 25. The m a x im um l im i ts for exports free of paymen ts increased for the fol- low ing goods: bona fide monetary g if ts, P 20,000 for a permanent resident a year; rejected goods, P 100,000 a transac t ion, subject to p rov id ing documen tary evidence; and commercial samp les (i.e., goods for exh ib i t ions or other promo t ional purposes), P 150,000 a t ransac t ion. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 25. Foreign currencies received in payment for goods and services in Bo tswana by traders may be surrendered in 30 days ins tead of three days. Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s t rumen ts February 25. Par t ic ipa t ion in any pu la bond issue by nonres iden ts w i ll not be re- stricted by nonres iden ts by exchange controls. Non res iden ts, howeve r, w i ll not be perm i t ted to buy any ins t rument of money ma rket for the purpose of absorb ing excess l iqu id i ty from the domestic f inanc ial system. Nonres iden ts are now permitted to issue pu la-denom ina ted bonds, provided such in s t rumen ts are listed on the Bo tswana Stock Exchange and are long-term ins t rumen ts w i th an original ma tu r i ty in excess of one year, subject to prior approval of the Bank of Bo tswana and the Bo tswana Stock Ex- change. The m ax imum ho ld ing by a nonresident po r t fo l io investor in any equ i ty se- cur i t ies listed on the Bo tswana Stock Exchange was increased to 10% of to tal issued and pa id -up shares of a company. The c um u l a t i ve aggregate sha reho ld ing for all non- res ident po r t fo l io inves to rs or the ir nom inees thereof was also increased to 55% of the free stock of a loca l ly incorporated company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Con tro ls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tment Prov is ions specific to ins t i tu t ional inves tors BOTSWANA 127 February 25. The amount that residents of Botswana may borrow from external sources was increased to P 200,000 from P 100,000 for i n d i v i d u a l s, and to P 2 m i l l i on from P 1 m i l l ion for companies and other corporate entities. February 25. Banks were authorized to sell foreign currency to residents who w i sh to invest outside Bo tswana up to a l im it of P 30 m i l l ion (up from P 10 m i l l ion) for com- panies and other corporate entities, and up to a l im it of P 1 million (up from P 100,000) for ind i v idu a ls a calendar year. Income from such inves tment must be reported to the Commissioner of Taxes and sale proceeds on f inal l iqu ida t ion, if not re inves ted, mu st be repatriated to Botswana. February 25. The immed ia te repatriation of d is inves tment proceeds was increased to P 100 m i l l ion from P 50 m i l l ion w i th any excess being repatriated in tranches at the Bank of Bo tswana's approva l. February 25. Wh i le the in i t ial tranche (an amount that a nonresident-controlled en t i ty can borrow w i thout hav ing brought capital from external sources) remained at P 1 m i l l ion, the debt-to-equity ratio was increased to 10:1 from 4:1. Prior approval of the Bank of Botswana is required for any amounts in excess of th is l im i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of February 28, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian real. There are two o f f ic ial exchange rates: the free or commercial rate used for most trans- actions, and the floating or tour ist rate. Foreign exchange is legally traded in both markets, depending on the nature of the transaction. In both exchange markets, the rates are freely negotiated between the authorized deal- ers and the ir clients. Banks conduct arbitrage operations between both markets; spot transactions must be settled w i th in two working days. The Central Bank of Brazil (CBB) establishes an ad jus tab le band for the external va lue of the national currency. A band of R$1.05-R$1.14 was set on February 19, 1997, and the current band of R$1.12-R$1.22 was established on Janua ry 22, 1998. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for specific currencies in the in- ternational market. Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tour ist agen- cies and brokers deal on ly in banknotes and trave ler's checks. The m ax imum tax on credit, foreign exchange operations, and insurance operations and on transactions in financial ins trumen ts or securities (IOF) is limited by law to 25%. For foreign exchange transactions, th is tax was reduced to zero on May 2, 1997. Effec t ive June 1, 1997, a 2% tax is applied to the fo l low ing transactions: (1) inves t- ments in B raz i l ian f ixed- income fund s; (2) in f lows related to in terbank operations between foreign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and banks authorized to conduct fore ign ex- change transactions in Braz i l; (3) ho ld ings of short-term assets in Braz il by nonresi- dents; and (4) rem i t tances related to ob l iga t ions of credit card adm in i s t ra t ion companies to pay for purchases by its customers since December 10, 1997. No. Banks are perm i t ted to trade foreign exchange on a forward basis w i t h o ut res tr ic t ion; such transac t ions mu st be settled w i t h in 360 days. Banks may pay the ir clients a pre- m ium, corresponding to the expected var ia t ion of the domestic currency in re la t ion to the currency subject to nego t ia t ion, by way of forward operations. In add i t ion, when an exchange contract for fo rwa rd se t t lement is concluded, banks can p rov ide shor t- term f inanc ing to exporters by p rov id ing domestic currency in advance, before or after the sh ipment of goods. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency is related to the coun t ry of or ig in of impor ts or the coun t ry of f inal des t ina t ion of exports, un less o therw ise prescribed or au thor ized. Se t t lemen ts w i th Hunga ry are made in the terms specified in the b i la te ral agreement. Se t t lemen ts w i th countries w i th wh ich Brazil has no payment agreements and no special p a ym e nt arrangements are made in dollars. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities BRAZIL 129 Settlements w i th Hungary are made in dollars every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Brazil is a member of LAIA. Payments between Brazil and Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made through special central bank accounts w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clear- ing system of the LAIA. The National Monetary Council is responsible for formu la t ing overall foreign ex- change policy. In accordance w i th the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control regulations affecting foreign capital and the management of international re- serves are under the jurisdiction of the CBB. The M in is try of Planning and Budget enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. Foreign trade policy is for- mulated by the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry, Trade, and Tourism, implemented by the Secre- tariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formu la t ing guidelines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The M in i s t ry of Finance coordinates pub l ic sector import policy. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions There are restrictions imposed on Libya and Iraq. Payment arrears Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Foreign exchange for payments of principal and interest corresponding to med ium- and long-term debt in arrears over 180 days had to be obtained in the f loa t ing-ra te exchange market prior to Ap r il 23, 1997, when it was required that foreign exchange for paymen ts of debt in arrears be obtained in the same exchange market (free-rate exchange market) through wh ich the paymen ts should have been made on due dates. There are two separate markets for gold transactions: the f inanc ial and commercial markets. Over 50% of transactions occur in the f inanc ial market, wh ich is regulated by the CBB. The f i r st domestic negotiation of new ly mined gold on th is market is subject to a 1% f inanc ial transac t ions tax. Ru les regarding gold transactions for indu s t r i al purposes are defined separately by the federal states, wh ich also establish d ifferent rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The CBB and authorized ins t i tu t ions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets. Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and in terna t ional prices; the in terna t ional price is considered a target price. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBB and authorized ins t i tu t ions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the in terna t ional market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or bring in domestic or foreign banknotes w i thout restriction but must declare to customs any amount over the equivalent of US$10,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Ins t i tu t ions authorized to operate in the floating-rate market, such as tourism agencies, the B raz i l ian postal au tho r i ty, credit card companies, and the Braz i l ian Re insu rance In s t i tu te (Bras il Resseguros S.A. (IRB)), may open these accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 130 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts may be held by embassies, foreign delegations, and in te rna t ional or- gan iza t ions recognized by the B raz i l ian governmen t; foreign in te rna t ional transporta- t ion companies; foreign c i t izens in t rans it in the coun t ry; and B raz i l ian c i t izens l i v i ng abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency N a t u r al and ju r id i c al persons ( f inanc ial and non f in an c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s) may hold these accounts. On ly the resources deposited in nonres ident banks or the resources that have entered Braz il th rough foreign currency sales and have not been w i thd r awn can be repatriated to foreign countries. These resources con t inue to be ava i lab le to nonresi- den ts once thery are w i t h d r aw n, but on ly in na t ional currency. Blocked accounts No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments Ex te rnal f inanc ing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days must be registered in the "Financial Operations Registry," an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Depar tment of Foreign Cap i tal (FIRCE) w i th in f ive days. The time to f ina l ize anticipatory settlements for c r i t ical imports is 30 days. Exchange contracts may be settled w i t h in 180 days. Pay- ment for f inanced impo r ts for periods of up to 360 days mu st be contracted for fu tu re l iqu id a t ion 180 days in advance, except in the fo l low ing cases: (1) impo r ts due to drawback transac t ions; (2) impor ts of petroleum and some of its byproduc ts; (3) im- ports up to the equ iva lent of US$10,000; and (4) impor ts up to the equ iva lent of US$40,000 embarked prior to June 30, 1998, and o r ig ina t ing from MERCOSUR, Bo l iv ia, or Ch i le, w i th payment occurring up to two mon ths after the registration of the import declaration. All importers mu st be registered in the SECEX Impor ter and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported by f i rms and persons and must be registered by the CBB, except for impor ts by the pub l ic sector (federal, state, and m u n i c i p a l ); impor ts by PETROBRAS (the Braz i l ian government oil enterprise) and contracting or subcontracting f i rms en- gaged in oil exp lora t ion th rough risk contracts; impor ts of medicine by i n d i v i d u a ls up to US$5,000; imports of samples w i thout commercial value, except for pharmaceutical products, up to US$1,000; impo r ts of products, except for those proh ib i ted or under special control, by ind iv idua ls for personal consumption; and imports of goods con- sidered as passengers' baggage for personal use. The import subsys tem of the Inte- grated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) was established on Janua ry 1, 1997. The subsystem a l lows impor ters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the var ious stages of an import process directly th rough the interlinked computers of SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the fo l low ing three broad categories: (1) impor ts that do not require prior adm in is tra t ive documentation, includ- ing samples w i thout commercial va lue and certain educa t ional materials; (2) impo r ts that require prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/IMPORT; and (3) pro- h ib i ted impor ts. Importers are perm i t ted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market w i th in 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a l im it on the direct im- por ta t ion and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the p u b l ic sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and pub l ic enterprises). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Letters of c red it Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs BRAZIL 131 Federal m in is t r ies and subord ina te agencies and pub l ic enterprises are required to subm i t, for approval by the M in i s t ry of P lann ing and Budget, an annual inves tment program specifying the ir expected import requirements. Impor ts or ig ina t ing or proceeding f rom countries under restrictions determined by the UN Security Council and imports of bovines in any form or ig ina t ing or proceeding from the Un i ted Kingdom (Great Br i ta in and Nor thern Ireland) are subject to domi- ciliation requirements. The d ra f ts or LCs must be settled on ma tu r i ty against the presentation of the appro- pr ia te documen ts by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under LCs mu st be closed on the date of settlement or two wo rk ing days before the ma tu r i ty date o f t h e L C. Some impor ts require prior approval from the DECEX (i.e., an impo rt license), wh i ch is u sua l ly g iven p romp t ly to registered importers of nonproh ib i ted items. As a ru le, licenses are va l id for 60 days, except for imports of cus tom-made capital goods. The Secretariat of Federal Revenue issues clearance certificates for certain groups of com- modities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified impo r ts may be obtained af ter the commodities have been landed and cus- toms clearance obtained. The impo r ta t ion of certain products requires approval of the M in i s t ry of Science and Technology. For some products, e l ig ib i l i ty for exemption from import du t ies may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equ iva len t. Most impor ts are exempt from prior approval requ iremen ts. Imports of agrochemical products not au thor ized under B raz i l ian regu la t ions, weap- ons, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, hea l th, mo ra l i ty, or indu s t r ial policy are proh ib i ted. Open general impo rt licenses are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is re- stricted to the ir annexes, up to the ex is t ing rema inder of issued open general licenses. In addition to impor ts under B raz i l ian concessions covered by the LA IA agreement, goods imported in to the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an a n n u al quo ta. Foreign goods up to the equ iva lent of US$2,000 imported in to the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. In accordance w i th WTO rules, quotas are imposed on imports of tex- tiles from Ch ina, Hong Kong SAR, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China due to the ir effect on the domestic indu s t ry. The ta r i ff rate on impor ts of toys is 70%. For vehicles ca r ry ing more than n ine persons, the ta r i ff is 65%. For au tomob i les, transport veh ic les, motorcycles, and bicycles, ta r i f fs are 70%, w h i le assemblers estab- lished in B raz il are favored w i th a special tar iff of 35%. A special ta r i ff of 35% applies to imports from Japan, the EU, and South Korea for a period of 12 mon ths, and for a quota of 50,000 vehicles, wh ich is distributed on a t r imon th ly basis according to the export performance of each country. The MERCOSUR customs un ion agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the r em a in ing 15% of goods ( in c lud ing a l i st of na t ional exceptions, cap i tal goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of ad jus tmen ts designed to b r ing them into l ine w i th the CET w i t h in f ive or six years. The ad jus tment regime allows Braz il and Argen t ina to ma in ta in tariffs on some intra- area trade un t il Janua ry 1, 1999, and Paraguay and U ruguay to ma in ta in some in tra- area ta r i f fs u n t il J anu a ry 1, 2000. The number of goods on its l i st of na t ional excep- t ions to MERCOSUR is 450. Taxes collected through the exchange system Foreign exchange transactions related to impor ts of goods have IOF exemp t ion, and foreign exchange transac t ions related to imports of services have a ta r i ff of zero. State import monopoly Impor ts of petroleum and de r iva t ives are conducted by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 BRAZIL Surrender requirements Financing requirements Yes. Advances on foreign exchange contracts are allowed for operations w i th a settlement period of up to 360 days, and the t ime for anticipatory settlements is 180 days. Also, for products considered essential for the supply of the domestic market ( fue l, mineral oils, chemical products, plastics, wood pastes, paper, cotton, linen and syn the t ic thread, flat steel, and a lum inum) the max imum period is 180 days. Documentation requirements Documen ta t ion includes invoices, in terna t ional sh ipment no t i f ica t ion, and export registration. Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for commodities subject to s tandard iza t ion. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of w i ld an im a ls and the ir hides, ha ir, p lumes, or eggs in any form, jacaranda- da-Bah ia wood, ipecacuanha plants, red and drab varieties of honey, and an t iques of more than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods require prior approval of the SECEX, inc lud ing those effected through bilateral accounts, exports w i thout ex- change cover, exports on cons ignmen t, reexports, commodities for wh ich m i n im um export prices are f ixed by the SECEX, and exports requ i r ing prior au tho r iza t ion from government agencies. SISCOMEX integrates the ac t iv i t ies related to the reg is t ra t ion, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations into a single computerized f low of in fo rma t ion. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsys tems (exports and impor ts). The exports subsys tem a l lows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the var ious stages of an export process directly through the in te r l inked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cleft p ine woods, mahogany, B raz i l ian w a l n u t, and v i ro la are subject to quotas. For exports of e thyl alcohol and sugar in any form, inc lud ing sugar- cane sy rup inappropr ia te for h um an consump t ion, the e l ig ib i l i ty for exemp t ion from the export tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quan t i ty exceeding domestic necessity au thor ized by the Indus t ry, Trade, and Tourism M in i s ter and the Finance Minister. Imports under Braz i l ian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements in the LAIA member countries and goods imported in to the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annu al quota. W i th the exception of exports of raw hides of cattle, horses, sheep, or any other raw hides, wh ich are subject to an export du ty of 9%, exports are free from export d u t y. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a zero-rate du ty. Exports of p r ima ry and semimanufactured products, as well as products used by companies to produce export goods, are exempted from the value-added tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for current inv i s ib les not covered by current regu la t ions requ ire approval from the CBB 's Exchange Depar tment (DECAM) or the FIRCE. All paymen ts and transfers are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. Freight/insurance Prior approval Unloading/storage costs Interest payments P ro f i t /d iv idends Insurance requires prior approval from the IRB. Yes. There are established ru les and su rve i l lance procedures related to the operations free ly conducted in the commercial market. Payments for med ium- and long-term external debt are subject to pr ior app roval by, and registration w i t h, the CBB 's FIRCE, and the issue of a cer t if ica te of reg is tra t ion, wh ich is the au tho r iza t ion to rem it abroad the related in teres t, expenses, and fees, provided that due taxes are paid. In add i t ion to cer ta in res t r ic t ions on remittances s t ipu la ted in the Foreign Inv e s tm ent Law (1962), l im i ts on income tax deductions are placed on remittances of roya l t ies and techn ical assistance fees. However, since 1996, und er Law 9249 (1995), it has ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prior approval Quantitative limits Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval BRAZIL 133 been possible to make paymen ts of interest on own capital. This k ind of payment may be deducted from income tax l iab i l i ty to determine the taxable income of companies, subject to income w i thho ld ing tax at the rate of 15%. Profit remittances related to direct inves tmen ts are exempt from w i thho ld ing for income tax purposes. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, inc lud ing reinvest- ments, contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and adm in is- t ra t ive assistance, are registered w i th the CBB's FIRCE. Amoun ts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for tech- n ica l, scientific, and adm in is tra t ive assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax l iab i l i ty to determine the taxable income, up to the l im it of 5% of gross receipts in the f i rst f ive years of the company 's operation; amoun ts exceeding th is l im it are considered prof i ts. On November 23, 1997, the m in imum average ma tu r i ty for external loans was reduced to one year from three years for new loans and to six mon ths from three years for re- newed loans. On February 26, 1998, these m i n im um ma tu r i t ies were increased to two years for new loans and to one year for renewed loans. These l im i ts do not apply to certain loans directed to specific economic sectors, ma in ly the ag r icu l tu ral sector, for wh ich the m in imum ma tu r i ty is six mon ths. Payments due to depreciation of direct inves tmen ts are not established by the laws and regulations. As a resu l t, rem i t tances abroad from direct inves tmen ts are treated as d iv idends, interest on own cap i ta l, capi- tal gains and re turn (repa tr ia t ion) of cap i ta l. Payments for medium- and long-term external debt in foreign currency are subject to prior approval by, and registration w i t h, the CBB's FIRCE, and the issue of a cer t if i- cate of reg is t ra t ion, wh i ch is au tho r iza t ion to rem it abroad the related p r inc ipal amor- t iza t ion (repaymen ts). Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Remittances for gamb l ing are not permitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current inv is ib les mu st be sold to the au thor ized banks at the p reva i l ing market rate. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The direct purchase of shares of B raz i l ian companies by nonresidents bas ica l ly occurs th rough direct inves tmen ts and portfolio inves tmen ts made by in s t i tu t ional investors th rough the managers of the respective portfolios. Depositary receipts (DRs) estab- lished by Reso lu t ion 2318 (1996) constitute another method of acqu ir ing shares th rough stock exchanges. They provide a mechanism for the placement of shares of B raz i l ian enterprises in the in te rna t ional markets. DRs are certificates representing a cer ta in numb er of shares of a g iven enterprise that confer upon the ir holders all of the r igh ts inhe rent in said shares, inc lud ing d iv idends, bonuses, splits, and market-quoted va lue. A B raz i l ian sponsoring enterprise places its shares in the custody of an in s t i tu- t ion headquar tered in B raz il and authorized by the Securities Commission (CVM) to prov ide custody services for the specific purpose of DR issues (custodian i n s t i t u t i o n ). At the same t ime, an in s t i tu t ion abroad (the depositary bank) issues the corresponding DRs based on the securities held in custody in Braz i l. Inves tmen ts effected through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 BRAZIL the DR mechan ism are exempt from income tax on cap i tal gains. The rate app l icab le to earn ings ob ta ined in B raz il is 10%, as these are inve s tmen ts in var iab le- income assets. In add i t ion, there are specific regu la t ions for inve s tmen ts in the MERCOSUR env i ronmen t. As for other securities, such as debentures and other fixed-income securities, the regu la t ions do not provide for direct purchases by nonres iden ts, a l though they may be effected indirectly th rough inves tment fund s. Resources of societies, por tfo l ios, and inve s tment f u n ds established in accordance w i th Re so lu t ion No. 2384 (1997) were allowed to be applied in debentures convertible to equities. Securities portfolios held in the coun t ry by foreign in s t i tu t ion al investors (i.e., pens ion f u n d s, nonp ro f it in s t i tu- tions, and insurance companies) must be managed by an in s t i tu t ion operating in the coun t ry and au tho r ized by the CVM. The foreign inves tor has the op t ion of a p p l y i ng for two types of reg is t ra t ion for the por tfo l io: an " ind iv idu al account" or an "omnibus account." The i n d i v i d u al account reg is tra t ion a l lows the inves tor to operate in its own name on ly, w h i le the omn ibus account reg is tra t ion a l lows the account ho lder to oper- ate only on beha lf of th i rd par t ies, k n own in the market as "passengers." The management i n s t i t u t i on is responsible for the reg is tra t ion of foreign inv e s tm ent w i th the CBB, foreign exchange se t t lemen ts, the co l lec t ion of taxes, po r t fo l io book- keeping, and the safekeeping of documents related to the por tfo l io. There is no l im it or ho ld ing period for f in an c i al transfers re su l t ing from i n f l ow s, f low- backs, and prof i ts or d iv idends from cap i tal d u ly registered w i th the CBB, prov ided that the accoun t ing ru les and tax laws are complied w i t h. The transfers mu st be pro- cessed th rough banks au thor ized to conduct fore ign exchange operations, w i th gua ran- teed access to the free foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency. To promote greater in teg ra t ion of the cap i tal marke ts of the s igna to ry coun tr ies of the MERCOSUR, an additional mechanism was established in 1992 to attract foreign resources targeting the B raz i l ian stock market. N a tu r al and ju r id i c al persons resident or domiciled in MERCOSUR countries may invest freely in Braz i l ian stock exchanges w i thout the necessity of trad ing th rough inve s tment funds or portfolios. The B raz i l ian market may be accessed directly by contacting a member ins t i tu t ion of the Braz i l ian securities d i s t r ibu t ion system, or ind i rec t ly th rough the in te rmed ia t ion of an i n s t i t u t i on in the securities d is t r ibu t ion system of the inves tor's coun try. The B raz i l ian in te rmed ia ry in s t i tu t ion, th rough wh ich the fore ign inves tor trades, rep- resents the inves tor v is-a-v is the B raz i l ian au tho r i t ies w i th respect to the opera t iona l, exchange, and tax aspects, and provides in fo rm a t ion on the operations executed. These inves tmen ts may be made in dollars, in the currency of the coun t ry of or ig in of the inve s tmen t, or in reais. Operations i n v o l v i ng the repa tr ia t ion of cap i tal are exempt from income tax w i thho ld ing. Earn ings from va r iab le - income inve s tmen ts are subject to a 10% income tax w i t h h o l d- ing (but exempt from income tax on capital ga ins), and those from f ixed - income in- ves tmen ts are subject to a 15% income tax w i t h h o l d i n g. Rem i t tances of cap i tal gains are subject to income tax at a rate of 15%. The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR env i ronment through share custody certificates or d irec t ly. The on ly way to sell other foreign securities in Brazil is through DRs, wh ich allow the place- ment of certificates representing these shares in the B raz i l ian marke t. Inwa rd and out- ward remittances associated w i th investments must be processed through banks au thor ized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the f loa t ing exchange rate mar- ket for transactions from MERCOSUR countries and in the free exchange rate market for DR transac t ions. There are no l im i ts or ho ld ing periods for the inve s tmen t s, al- though authorization is requ ired for DR issues. B raz i l ian na tu ral and ju r id i c al persons may make inve s tmen ts th rough the purchase of custody certificates on B raz i l ian stock exchanges representing shares issued by companies headquartered in MERCOSUR coun tr ies. These securities may be pu r- chased th rough foreign inves tment funds or th rough direct equ i ty inves tmen ts in en- terprises abroad. C ircu lar 2794 (1997) perm i ts employees of f i rms be long ing to foreign economic groups to purchase shares of the ma in company up to US$20,000. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents BRAZIL 135 In addition to the rules already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock exchanges by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective in- vestments can be made through Brazilian inves tment companies and fund s. Issues of securities abroad by residents are accorded the same trea tment as direct ex- ternal borrowing operations. Thus, exchange contracts invo lv ing the en try of fore ign currencies must be authorized in advance by the CBB. Fund transfers associated w i th issues of securities abroad are subject to the conditions of the respective certificates of registration issued by the CBB, the conditions of wh ich are set for th in the contract between the debtor and the creditor. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no specific rules for these transactions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no specific ru les for these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents There are no specific ru les for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Bonds and some other debt securities may be issued by residents but are subject to prior approval by, and registration w i th, the CBB's FIRCE and the issue of a certifi- cate of registration, wh ich is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, fees, and amor t iza t ion of p r inc ipa l, provided that due taxes are paid. There is a m i n im um average ma tu r i ty of 24 mon ths for new issues. Portfolio inves tment by foreign investors in fixed-income ins t rumen ts is restricted to two classes of fixed-income funds: the fixed-income funds that are subject to a trans- action tax of 7% and the pr iva t iza t ion funds that are subject to a transaction tax of 5%. As of April 24, 1997, the transaction tax for fixed-income funds was reduced to 2% from 7%, and that for pr iva t iza t ion funds was e l im ina ted. Collective investment in local shares by nonresidents is regulated in inves tment com- panies, inves tment fund s, and diversified stock portfolios. For collective inves tmen ts in other securities, the ins t rumen ts provided for in the regu la t ions are the foreign cap i tal f ixed - income fund s, p r iva t iza t ion fund s, real estate inve s tment fund s, and emerging enterprises inves tment funds. The IOF is assessed on the latter two types of investments at rates rang ing from zero to 10%. Their es tab l ishmen t, as well as changes in the ir by laws, must be authorized in advance by the CVM, except for the foreign capital fixed-income funds. The constitution of those funds must be announced in w r i t ing to the CBB w i th in a max imum of f ive days. The CBB may determine changes in the regulations of the fixed-income funds. Funds entering the country are subject to registration w i th the CBB for purposes of controlling foreign capital and fu tu re remit- tances abroad of cash d iv idends or bonuses and capital gains realized in the sale of the company's shares. Inward and outward remittances associated w i th investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, w i th guaranteed access to the free exchange rate market to purchase foreign currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no regu la t ions on these operations. Purchase abroad by residents There are no regu la t ions on these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Foreign inves tment funds are organized in the form of open-end m u t u al fund s. Par- ticipation is limited exclusively to na tu ral and ju r id ical persons and to funds and other collective investment entities resident, domiciled, or headquartered in Braz i l. Foreign inves tment f u n ds may be managed by a multipurpose bank, commercial bank, inves tment bank, brokerage f i rm, or securities distributor under the supervision and direct respons ib i l i ty of the manager of the in s t i tu t ion. A m i n im um of 60% of the f u n d 's investments must be in securities representative of the federal government's external debt and a max imum of 40% in other securities traded in the in terna t ional market. These securities must be kept abroad in a custodian account in the f u n d 's name. The fund is authorized to conduct operations in organized der iva t ive markets abroad solely for the purpose of hedging the securities mak ing up the respective por tfo l io. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 BRAZIL Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Inward and outward transfers of resources through foreign investment funds are sub- ject to registration w i th the CBB for purposes of monitoring and controlling Brazilian investment, as well as the respective income, investment repatriation, and capital gains. Transfers are processed in foreign currency through the free exchange rate market. Earnings from the redemption of shares of foreign inves tment funds are subject to a 15% income tax to be w i thhe ld by the managing ins t i tu t ion of the foreign investment funds on the date of the redemption payment or credit and paid w i th in three working days of the two-week period following the occurrence of the taxable event. Foreign capital fixed-income funds may conduct operations in organized derivative markets in the country, inc lud ing fu tu res operations carried out in markets managed by stock exchanges or commodities, and fu tures exchanges. The resources of investors from MERCOSUR countries may be invested in the domestic options and fu tu res market. The use of funds entering the country for the purchase of fixed-income secu- rities and in operations carried out in derivatives markets is prohibited. There are no restrictions on inves tmen ts in derivatives operations in Brazil by recipients of direct investments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations w i th financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. The costs of such operations mu st con- form to the parameters in force in the in terna t ional market. The CBB may, at its sole discretion, require foreign exchange compensation su f f ic ient to e l im ina te the effects of operations not in line w i th the established objective, or executed outside those parame- ters, w i thout prejudice to other sanctions that may app ly. Payments and receipts in foreign currency scheduled or expected to occur in the fu tu re in connection w i th commercial or f inanc ial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Hedging operations, however, are limited at any t ime (1) in interest rate and currency swaps, to the amount of the under ly ing commercial or f inanc ial rights and obligations rema in ing in foreign currency; and (2) in commodities swaps, open pos i t ions are l im- ited to the physical volume of the commodity to be exported, imported, or traded in the domestic market. The same regulations app ly as for purchases abroad by residents. On ly two forms of credits are permitted: (1) the Exporting F inanc ing Program (PROEX), wh ich is financed w i th national budget funds. PROEX resources may not be used to establish any fac i l i ty for foreign pub l ic or pr iva te en t i t ies, insofar as f inanc- ing is granted on a case-by-case basis, because credit may not be made ava i lab le to nonresidents for use in several ins ta l lmen ts spread over a period of t ime; and (2) the Mach inery and Equ ipment Export F inanc ing Program (F INAMEX ), wh ich is operated through agent banks by the Special Agency for Industrial Financing (FINAME). It provides funds so that f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions (F INAME agents) can grant loans to na- t ional exporters at rates and on terms s im i lar to those available to the ir foreign competitors. Commercial credits w i th terms in excess of 360 days must be au thor ized by and regis- tered w i th the FIRCE of the CBB. Prepayment of exports must be authorized by the CBB prior to the entry of the foreign exchange in to Brazil. Operations governed by these regu la t ions have a 361-day m i n i- mum term and are exempt from income tax and from the taxes on credit, exchange, insurance operations, and securities operations. The CBB authorizes and registers external f inanc ing for impor ts of cap i tal goods, in termed ia te goods, raw ma te r ia ls, and other goods and merchandise, regardless of the type of impor ter or the des t ina t ion of the merchand ise, if the operations have a term of at least one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment BRAZIL 137 In pr iva te sector import operations w i thout the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a pub l ic sector en t i ty, the f inanc ing terms —interest rate, spread, down payment —are freely contracted by the parties. In the case of a pub l ic sector en t i ty and in cases in- vo lv ing the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a pub l ic sector en t i ty, interest rates may not exceed the LIBOR rate for the reference period plus specified m ax imum spreads. Requests for au thor iza t ion may be approved by the CBB, as there is no legal impedi- ment to doing so. The proceeds of f inanc ial credits granted to residents must be kept w i t h in the coun t ry, and the resources must be used for investment in economic activities. Exchange con- tracts i n v o l v i ng the entry of foreign exchange in connection w i th borrowing are sub- ject to prior approval by the CBB. Rem i t tances of loan, credit, or f inanc ing interest in excess of the interest rate indicated in the respective contract and registration are considered as principal paymen ts. A 15% income tax rate is levied on rem i t tances of interest and other income associated w i th foreign loan operations, except when bilateral agreements to avoid dual taxa t ion specify another rate or when the borrower or lender is tax exempt. The federal government, states, mun ic ipa l i t ies, the federal district, and their founda- tions and agencies, as well as multilateral organizations and foreign government agencies located abroad are exempted. Guarantees by non f in an c i al ju r id ical persons in credit operations for their foreign subsidiaries are subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the CBB. Exchange operations invo lv ing f inanc ial transfers abroad in execution of bank sureties and guarantees in question are carried out exc lus ive ly through the f loa t ing exchange rate market when such guarantees relate or are l inked to (1) imports and other foreign currency operations not covered by certificates issued by the CBB or by a fac i l i ty; and (2) repa tr ia t ion of amoun ts entering the coun try as advance payment for exports in the event of nonsh ipment of the goods. Exchange operations i n v o l v i ng f inanc ial transfers associated w i th the execution of payment guarantees for imports, loans, or external financing covered by certificates of authorization or registration issued by the CBB are processed through the free ex- change rate market. There are no restrictions on guarantees provided by nonresidents to residents in con- nection w i th foreign capital registered w i th the CBB, subject to the presentation of a formal statement by the foreign en t i ty fu rn i sh ing the guarantee. Data concerning the guarantee and the costs incurred in ob ta in ing it are included in the Certificate of Au tho r iza t ion or Reg is tra t ion of the guaranteed operation. If costs are incurred in ob ta in ing the guaran tee, the credit operation mu st be authorized in advance by the CBB. There are no specific regu la t ions governing other operations. In the event of execution of a guarantee, the benef ic iary mu st arrange for the entry of the corresponding foreign exchange d irec t ly through the bank ing system. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may transfer up to US$5 m i l l ion for each f inanc ial group, inc lud ing all remittances in the last 12 mon ths, and they are basically required to keep on f i le and make available to the CBB the documen ts mentioned in said regulations. Transfers exceeding the established l im it must f i rst be submitted to the CBB no less than 30 days in advance of the exchange con trac t, and, regardless of the amoun t, exchange operations in wh ich the purchaser of the fore ign exchange is an en t i ty be long ing to the direct or indirect pub l ic adm in is t ra- t ion are sub ject to prior au tho r i z a t ion by the CBB. In th is case, rem i t tances m u st be processed th rough the free exchange rate market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 BRAZIL Inward direct inves tment Brazilian enterprises may invest in f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions abroad through the floating exchange rate market. However, such inves tmen ts by non f inanc ial enterprises require prior approval of the CBB and must meet some specified conditions. Inves tmen ts abroad by ins t i tu t ions authorized to operate by the CBB must ob ta in the prior op in ion of the CBB 's Department of Financial System Organization and sa t isfy several condi- tions, especially w i th respect to paid-up capital, net assets, time in operation, fixed- asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Applications for the registration of foreign direct inves tment and technology are not subject to prior authorization, except for foreign inves tmen ts via the contribution of goods. Inves tmen ts in commercial banks are l im i ted to 30% of the vo t ing cap i tal if there are restrictions on the operations of B raz i l ian banks in the markets where the ir ma in offices are located. The es tab l ishment in Brazil of new branches of f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions domiciled abroad is prohibited. Also, any increase in the percentage of equity participation in f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions headquartered in Brazil by na tural or ju- ridical persons resident or domiciled abroad is proh ib i ted, except for au tho r iza t ions resulting from in te rna t ional agreements, from reciprocity arrangemen ts, or in the in ter- est of the B raz i l ian government as expressed by pres iden t ial decree. In the case of h ighway fre ight transpor ta t ion, there are l im i t a t ions on equ i ty pa r t ic ipa- t ion of up to one - f i f th of the vo t ing capital stock, except for companies established before Ju ly 11, 1980, to wh i ch d ifferent rules apply. In fu tu re capital increases by subscription, however, such entities are required to pay up to fou r - f i f ths of said in- creases in ordinary registered shares through national underwriters. Foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion in jou rn a l i s t ic and radio and te lev is ion broadcasting enterprises is p roh ib i ted. Direct or ind irect equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion by foreign enterprises or cap i tal in the hea l th care sector in Brazil is also prohibited, except in special cases. The registration of foreign inves tment th rough the ver if ica t ion of patent or trademark r igh ts as a means of pay ing in capital is subject to prior recording of the deed of transfer or assignment of the rights to use the patent or trademark w i th the Na t ional In s t i tu te of Indu s t r ial Property, and is l im i ted to the va lue stated in the latter. The in- ves tment is registered in the currency of the country where the beneficiary is domi- ciled or headquartered, and mu st be requested from the CBB by the par ty receiving the inve s tmen t. Foreign inves tmen ts via the con tr ibu t ion of goods w i thout exchange cover are subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the CBB and the SECEX. The goods, mach ine ry, or equip- ment must be used in the produc t ion of goods or the prov is ion of services, must have a u se ful l i fe of more than f ive years, and must be part of the enterprise's assets for at least f ive years. Inves tmen ts th rough currency transfers are not subject to prior au tho r iza t ion. This type of investment may take place through the free exchange rate market to pay up the sub- scribed capital of enterprises already operating in B raz i l, to organ ize a new enterprise, or to acquire an interest in an ex is t ing B raz i l ian en terpr ise. Branches of foreign companies may be opened, subject to the prior issuance of an au tho r i z ing decree by the president of the Repub l ic. A branch is considered an office of a foreign enterprise. Enterprises established in B raz il w i th any degree of foreign equ i ty par t ic ipa t ion are not covered by th is restriction. The entry of resources associated w i th the inv e s tm ent must be processed th rough a bank ing i n s t i t u t i on au thor ized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Rem i t tances of proceeds mu st be processed th rough banks au tho r ized to conduct for- eign exchange operations. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Transfers for the purchase of residential or commercial real estate abroad may be made through the f loa t ing exchange rate marke t. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The purchase of real estate in B raz il is not restricted. Foreign inv e s tm en ts in the cap i tal of B raz i l ian enterprises ( inc lud ing resources to be used for inves tment in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 1 39 cap i tal of real estate enterprises) by parties resident, domiciled, or headquartered abroad are unres tr ic ted and are not subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the CBB. The exchange occurs on the free exchange rate market. Controls on personal capital movements Loans There are no regu la t ions on these operations. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G if ts and endowmen ts require the app roval of the CBB. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but documen tary support is required. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Yes. The benef ic iary must prove he or she is leaving Braz il de f in i t ive ly, and certificates of Secretariat of Federal Revenue are required. There are no controls, but documen tary support is required. Foreign borrowing for terms exceeding 360 days is subject to authorization and regis- t ra t ion w i th the CBB. The CBB requires that banks au thor ized to conduct fore ign exchange operations obtain fac i l i t ies abroad for terms of up to 360 days to extend commercial credit in Braz i l. The Na t ional Bank for Economic and Social Deve lopmen t, p r iva te inves tment or de- ve lopment banks, commercial banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange opera- t ions, and mu l t ipu rpose banks w i th a commercial por tfo l io (if authorized to conduct fore ign exchange operations and ho ld ing an inves tment or development por tfo l io) are permitted to contract loans abroad to be onlent to enterprises in B raz il by issu ing commercial paper. They may also borrow abroad by i s su ing f loa t ing - ra te notes, f ixed- rate notes, floating-rate certificates of deposit, fixed-rate certificates of deposit, gov- ernment bonds, and p r iva te bonds. Financial ins t i tu t ions in the Na t ional Rural Credit System may borrow abroad to fi- nance costs, inves tmen t, or the marke t ing of ag r icu l tu ral and livestock p roduc t ion. Banks may raise funds abroad to be on lent to na tu ral or ju r id ical persons to f inance the construction or purchase of new real estate. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may use facilities contracted for terms exceeding 360 days w i th banks abroad to f inance impo r ts by resident enterprises. The pub l ic sector may engage in external credit operations for the settlement of in te rnal debt. In Ap r il 1997, the rate of the IOF applied to lend ing operations in foreign currency was reduced to zero from a range of up to 3%. There are no legal p rov is ions au tho r iz ing banks or credit in s t i tu t ions headquartered in Braz il to grant f in an c i al loans to nonresidents or to purchase securities issued abroad for terms exceeding 360 days. This restriction does not apply to the foreign branches of Braz i l ian banks w i th regard to commercial credit. All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Braz il that require payment in foreign currency, are nu ll and void. Consequently, banks are p roh ib i ted f rom gran t ing foreign currency loans w i t h in Braz i l. However, th is restriction does not app ly to the on lend ing of external fore ign currency loans. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Domestic opera t ions in fo re ign currenc ies are p roh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BRAZIL D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regu la t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. L im i ts d i f fer according to the exchange market in wh ich the transactions take place as fo l lows: (1) banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the free ex- change rate market may hold long positions of up to US$5 m i l l ion, inc lud ing all cur- rencies and all of each bank's branches. Amoun ts exceeding th is ceiling must be deposited w i th the CBB in dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is contingent upon each bank's adjusted net wor th; and (2) on the floating exchange rate market, the fo l low ing ceilings have been set: (a) For licensed banks, the long exchange position is US$1 m i l l ion (any amount in excess of th is ceiling must be deposited w i th the CBB), and the short exchange posi- t ion is contingent on the in s t i tu t ion 's adjusted net wo r th; (b) For licensed dealers (brokerage f i rms; securities d is tr ibu tors; and credit, f inanc ing, and inves tment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange position is US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed; (c) Licensed tour ism agencies do not ma in ta in exchange positions, but they are re- qu ired to observe the da i ly operational ceiling (cash) of US$200,000; any su rp luses must be sold to licensed banks or dealers; and (d) Providers of tour ist accommodations may have cash ho ld ings in foreign currencies of up to US$100,000 to meet the ir operational needs; any surpluses must be sold to licensed banks or dealers. n.a. In s t i tu t ional investors may invest up to 10% of the ir technical reserves in inves tment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of their reserves, together w i th other inves tmen ts up to the same ce i l ing, in shares of open companies, pub l ic ly issued conver t ib le deben tures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open companies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquar tered in MERCOSUR coun tr ies. Currency-ma tch ing regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition n.a. Exchange arrangement February 19. The adjustable band for the external v a lue of the real was revised to R$1.05-R$1.14 per U.S. dollar. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments May 2. The tax on foreign exchange transac t ions was e l im ina ted. April 23. Foreign exchange for paymen ts of debt arrears must be obtained in the same exchange market (free rate exchange market) through wh ich the paymen ts should have been made on due dates. January 1. An impo rt subsys tem, SISCOMEX/IMPORT, was in troduced, w h i ch al- lows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the va r ious stages of an import process d i rec t ly th rough the in te r l inked computers of SECEX, cus toms, and the CBB. May 2. The app l ica t ion of the IOF, at a rate of 25%, to exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services was discontinued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 141 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers November 13. The m in imum average ma tu r i ty was reduced to one year from three years for external loans, and to six mon ths from three years for renewed loans. Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts Controls on der iva t ives and other ins t rumen ts April 24. The IOF fixed-income fund was reduced to 2% from 7% and that for real property inves tment funds was eliminated. The IOF ceased to to be levied on IOF loans contracted by residents, inc lud ing banks. May 22. Under Resolution 2384 (1997), resources of societies, portfolios, and inves t- ment funds established under Resolution 1289 (1987) could be used to regulate de- r iva t ives in fu tu res markets for the purpose of ma in ta in ing the ir current market values. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement January 20. The ad jus tab le band for the external va lue of the real was revised to R$1.12-R$1.22. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 26. The m i n im um average ma tur i t ies for external loans were increased to two years for new loans and to one year for renewed loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of B runei Darussa lam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The B runei do l lar is issued by the B runei Currency Board (BCB) on ly against pay- men ts in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Inter- changeab i l i ty Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of Singapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is cus tomary tender in B runei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each o the r 's currency and have agreed to mu tual exchange at par and w i t h o ut charge. They have ins truc ted the ir banks to do the same w i th the ir customers. Any excess currency is repatriated regu lar ly, w i th the issu ing in s t i tu t ion bearing the costs, and se t t lemen ts are made in the other coun t ry 's currency. The BCB deals on ly in Singa- pore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, w i th no restrictions on amoun t, ma tu r i ty, or type of transac t ion. The Brunei Association of Banks f ixes daily buy ing and selling rates for electronic transfers and sight draf ts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quota- tions for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei Darus- salam must app ly these rates for transac t ions w i th the general pub l ic for amoun ts up to B$ 100,000. Exchange rates for amoun ts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current in te rbank quo ta t ions for the Singapore do l lar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no fo rwa rd market for foreign exchange in B runei Da russa lam. However, as a resu lt of the CIA, foreign exchange risk can be hedged in terms of Singapore do l lars by resor t ing to fac i l i t ies av a i l ab le in that coun t ry, in c lud ing foreign currency fu tu r es and op t ions traded on the Singapore In te rna t ional Mone tary Exchange (S IMEX ), over- the-coun ter fo rwa rd transac t ions arranged by banks in Singapore, and the short- term foreign exchange swap ma rket operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangemen ts Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t i es Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. B runei Da russa lam is a member of the ASEAN. There are no fo rmal exchange controls, but the M i n i s t ry of Finance (MOF) retains respons ib i l i ty for exchange control matters. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 143 International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domestic own e r sh ip and/or trade Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Da russa lam, and gold dealers and jewelers specifically authorized by the MOF may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import du ty, but a 10% du ty is levied on the impor ta t ion of gold jewe l ry. Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. There is no d is t inc t ion between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for env ironmen ta l, hea l th, safety, security, or religious reasons. Except for cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, most imports are subject to ta r i ff rates of up to 200%. Some 70% of items ( inc lud ing basic foods tuffs, construction materials, and educational materials) are zero rated. Most other goods are subject to tar iff rates of 5%, 15%, or 20%. Fireworks are subject to a 30% du ty, wh i le automobiles are subject to du t ies rang ing between 40% and 200%, depending on engine size. In ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM accordance w i th the CEPT scheme for the AFTA, Brunei Darussalam will eliminate its ta r i f fs on imports from other ASEAN members by 2003, w i th the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently excluded from the plan. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kero- sene, rice, salt, and sugar. There are no export taxes. Yes. n .a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments The provision of foreign exchange for these paymen ts is subject to a bona fide test. Interest paymen ts are subject to a 20% w i thho ld ing tax. Informa t ion on transfers for amor t iza t ion of loans and depreciation of direct inves tmen ts was not available at the t ime of pub l ica t ion. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. There are no sectoral restrictions, but ac t iv i t ies relating to na t ional food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local par t ic ipa t ion. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and indus- tries that solely export may be f u l ly foreign owned. Joint ven tures are pa r t icu la r ly encouraged in expor t- import indus t r ies and activities suppor t ing such indus t r ies. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. No. Only Brunei citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, inc lud ing sites destined for indu s t ry, ag r icu l tu re, agro- forestry, and aquaculture. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 145 Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. No. No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian lev. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged On Ju ly 1, 1997, the Law on the Bulgarian Na t ional Bank (BNB) was amended by parliament effectively establishing a currency board arrangement. The deutsche mark was chosen as the peg currency and the lev was pegged at the rate of lev 1,000 per DM 1, close to the current market rate at that time. The BNB is required to sell and purchase on demand and w i thout restriction deutsche mark for the lev on the basis of spot exchange rates that may not d i f fer from the off ic ial exchange rate by more than 0.5%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Balances continue to exist on clearing accounts maintained under former bilateral arrangements. These arrangements are now inoperative, and the only transactions that take place on clearing accounts are those that are intended to settle the balances. Va lua t ion and settlement of the balances take place in convertible currencies. There are arrangements with Cambodia, Guinea, the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable ruble accounts w i th Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, and Romania. The bilateral payment arrangements and/or barter agreements w i th Pakistan and Ch ina were terminated on January 16, 1997 and January 22, 1997, respectively. The debit balances w i th Poland and Hungary are ex- pected to be settled by end-March 1998 and end-April 1998, respectively; agreement on arrangements to settle the debit balance w i th Germany is close, and settlement of the debit balance w i th Roman ia is under negotiation. There are inac t ive agreements w i th the Islamic State of A fghan i s tan, E th iop ia, Ghana, Guyana, Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Tanzania. According to a bilateral protocol between the respective banks of Ind ia and Bulgaria, Ind ia 's obligations are payable in goods and services. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF), the BNB, authorized banks, customs adm in is t ra t ion, border guards, and port offices. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears P r iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on ex te rnal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly BULGARIA 147 Several commerc ial banks that are in bank rup tcy have ou ts tand ing debt service arrears. The MOF con tro ls the acqu is i t ion, possession, processing, and disposal of gold, s i lve r, and p l a t i n um. The BNB is the on ly in s t i tu t ion en t i t led to purchase, sell, and hold gold. All domestic transac t ions for indus t r ial purposes must be conducted at cur- rent prices th rough the BNB. Commercial banks are allowed to make transactions in precious metals. Res ident i n d i v i d u a ls may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. However, in September 1996, the Cons t i tu t ional Court declared the ban on trade un con s t i tu t ion a l. The BNB is the on ly in s t i tu t ion en t i t led to import or export gold w i thout special per- m iss ion. Local na tu ral persons are not a l lowed to export and import precious metals, precious stones, and coins made of precious metals w i thout a perm it from the MOF in any amoun ts other than those generally considered to be normal for personal and fam- ily use. Banks authorized to make currency transactions abroad may export and import precious metals, provided the latter represent objects of bank operations and the BNB has issued a perm i t. Nonresidents may import precious metals in the form of ingots, the ir products and precious stones, as well as coins made of precious metals in amoun ts genera l ly considered to be normal for personal and f am i ly use. Nonresidents leav ing the coun t ry may export precious metals in ingots, their products and precious stones, as we ll as coins made of precious metals up to the amoun ts imported and de- clared by them, as we ll as such articles purchased in the country whose value sha ll not exceed the amount of conver t ib le foreign currency imported and declared by the non- resident at customs. Resident ju r id ical persons are allowed to import and export gold w i th the perm iss ion of the MOF and the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism (MTT). Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may take out banknotes and coins up to lev 10,000; per- m iss ion from the BNB is required for larger amoun ts. Res iden ts may take out up to the equ iva lent of $1,000 w i t h o ut restriction, from $1,000 to $10,000 upon p resen ta t ion of a statement of account (receipt) by a bank, and more than $10,000 w i th the perm iss ion of the BNB. Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may br ing in bankno tes and coins up to lev 10,000; per- m iss ion from the BNB is required to import larger amoun ts. The amount mu st be declared, and nonres iden ts may take out unspent foreign currency notes upon depa r tu re. Resident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Residents may m a in t a in these accounts in Bu lgar ia. Balances on these accounts earn interest at in t e rn a t ion al ma rket rates. The cred i t ing and deb i t ing of foreign currency accoun ts are not subject to any regu la t ions. Transfers abroad may be made w i th per- m i s s ion f rom the MOF and the BNB, except for cases related to paymen ts for i n v i s i b le t ransac t ions and current t rans fe rs. These paymen ts may be realized after the required documen ts are presented to the respective commercial bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 Held abroad BULGARIA While opening accounts w i th foreign banks is not explicitly banned, like all transfers abroad, transfers from Bulgaria to these accounts are subject to regulation. Prior per- mission from the BNB and MOF is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Nega t ive list Import taxes and/or tariffs The crediting and deb i t ing of these accounts are not subject to any regulations. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Imports of tobacco products; coal, petroleum, and other fue ls; livestock and meat; da iry products; certain grains; ferrous metals and alloys; and sugar must be registered at the MTT. Licenses are required for imports of m i l i tary hardware and related technologies, na tu- ral gas, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and nuclear materials, pharmaceuti- cals, herbicides, pesticides, unbottled alcohol, jewe l ry, rare and precious metals, asbestos products, narcotic and psychotropic products, gamb l ing machines, etc. Li- censes for most of these goods are no rma l ly granted w i th in two working days. Impor ts of certain goods (dangerous substances w i th ozone-depleting potential, in- c lud ing mach ine ry and equ ipment for air cond i t ion ing us ing Freon 12; refrigerators, freezers, and other equipment u s ing Freon 11 or 12) are restricted for health and se- cur i ty reasons. Import ta r i f fs range from 5% to 80% and are calculated on a t ransac t ion -va lue basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. Certain products are allowed tempo ra r i ly to be imported w i thout custom du t ies w i t h in specified quan t i t ies (i.e., active substances for the produc t ion of insecticides, fung ic ides, and herbicides, some ag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry and the ir spare parts, f lou r, l ive breeding an ima ls, etc.). Other products may be tempo- ra r i ly imported w i thout custom du t ies and w i thout qu an t i ty res tr ic t ions (i.e., equ ip- men t, spare parts, in fo rma t ional products, and chem ica ls for env i ronment em iss ions control; special in s ta l la t ions for recovery of poisoned lands; substances, ma te r ia l s, and equ ipment for replacement of ozone-destruction technologies; equ ipmen t, mach ines, and spare parts used in mines and geological research ac t iv i t ies; in s ta l la t ion s, equ ip- men t, and spare parts for p roduc t ion of energy from non t rad i t ional a l t e rn a t ive sources; medical equ ipment for h um an and veterinary med ic ine, etc.). On J u ly 1, 1997, the import surcharge was reduced to 4% from 5% and is to be g radua l ly reduced and e l im ina ted in 2000. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 149 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of tobacco products, coal, petroleum, meat, dairy products, w ine, certain grains, textiles, Pharmaceuticals, ferrous and nonferrous metals and alloys must be registered. On January 1, 1998, the Regulation on the Export and Import Regime abolished cer- tain bans and altered the coverage of export registration arrangements. Special licenses are required for the settlement of outstanding balances of the multilateral clearing arrangements. Export licenses are required for exports of m i l i tary hardware and related technologies, endangered and w i ld flora and fauna, livestock, radioactive materials, crafts and an t iques, seeds, untreated wood, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted w i th in two working days. Yes. Exports of ferrous metals scrap are subject to quotas. On January 1, 1998, the export tax on cereals was abolished, wh i le certain export taxes were amended. Export taxes are levied on certain types of timber, raw hides, certain livestock, wool, sunf lower oil, grain, and waste and scrap of ferrous and non- ferrous metals. Taxes are quoted in dollars but paid in leva. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test P ro f i t /d iv idends Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Medical costs Prior approval S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Payments for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in is t ra t ive ex- penses, commissions, study abroad costs, subscriptions and membership fees, and consulting and legal fees are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Payments of interest are allowed on loans approved by the MOF against presentation of the approval and loan agreement, and a bank document certifying receipt of the convertible exchange. Profits and d iv idends may be transferred abroad, provided the foreign investor has paid his/her taxes. Payments of principal on loans approved by the MOF are allowed against presentation of the approval and loan agreement, and a bank document certifying receipt of the convertible exchange. There are no restrictions on transfers of depreciation of direct investment. Yes. App roval of the M in i s t ry of Health is required for medical treatment aga inst the pre- sentation of the protocol by the committee on medical treatment abroad (under the M in is t ry of Hea l th) and a document by a foreign medical treatment ins t i tu t ion. For s tudy abroad, the presentation of a document by the foreign educational and t r a in ing in s t i tu t ion is required as well as approval of the MOF. Costs related to educa- tion are limited to $10,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 BULGARIA Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Pensions Prior approval Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Prior approval Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony These remittances are not exp l ic i t ly regulated but have been treated im p l i c i t ly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports, and therefore requ ire prior permission from the BNB in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF. Prior permission is not required in cases where foreign workers are employed in Bu lga r ian companies abroad. Yes. App roval of the MOF is requ ired. Approval of the MOF is required. These remittances are not exp l ic i t ly regulated but have been treated im p l i c i t ly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports, and therefore require prior perm iss ion from the BNB in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF. Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib le transac t ions mu st be repatriated. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Except for licensed commercial banks, pr ior permission of the BNB, in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. Except for licensed commercial banks, prior permission of the BNB, in consultation w i th the MOF, is required. Except for licensed commercial banks, prior perm iss ion of the BNB, in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. Except for licensed commercial banks, prior permission of the BNB, in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. Except for licensed commercial banks, prior perm iss ion of the BNB, in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. There are no controls, except for pr iva t iza t ion fund s' shares, wh ich are non tradab le in the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior permission of the MOF is required. Purchase abroad by residents Except for licensed commercial banks, prior permission of the MOF, in consultation w i th the BNB, is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls, except for shares issued by residents in foreign currency and for shares issued by p r iva t iza t ion funds, wh ich are nontradable in the secondary market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 151 Except for licensed commercial banks, prior permission of the BNB, in consu l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. Except for licensed commercial banks, prior perm iss ion of the BNB, in con su l ta t ion w i th the MOF, is required. Credits extended abroad or received from abroad require the perm iss ion of the MOF. Except for licensed commercial banks, credits extended abroad or received from abroad require the permission of the MOF. Except for licensed commercial banks, residents need perm iss ion f rom the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits F inanc ial credits Guaran tees, sureties, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Yes. Inwa rd direct inve s tment In tercompany loans require MOF perm iss ion. Foreign direct inves tmen ts are guaran- teed aga inst expropr ia t ion, except for na t iona l iza t ion th rough legal process. Foreign f i rms are granted the same status as domestic f i rms. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases must be approved by the MOF. Purchase lo c a l ly by non res iden ts Prior perm iss ion of the MOF is required. Nonres iden ts may not purchase and own land. If they inhe r it land, they must dispose of it w i t h in a three-year period. Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Prior pe rm iss ion of the MOF is requ ired. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Res iden ts requ ire the perm iss ion of the MOF. G i f t s, endowmen t s, inhe r i tance s, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets The perm iss ion of the MOF is required for g if ts and endowmen ts. The permission of the MOF is required. Transfer abroad by emigrants The perm iss ion of the MOF is requ ired. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Licensed banks may borrow abroad w i thout the authorization of the BNB. Licensed commercial banks, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guaran- tee from the government of Bu lga r ia and if their borrowing complies w i th the pruden- t ial regu la t ions set up by the BNB. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Licensed banks are not proh ib i ted from such lend ing. Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Licensed banks are not p roh ib i ted from such lend ing. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements These accounts are subject to some res tr ic t ions set by the BNB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 BULGARIA Liquid asset requirements Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Each bank is required to observe daily and as of the date of the preparation of its mon th ly report (1) a max imum ratio of 25% between its open position in any particu- lar currency and the amount of its own fund s, excluding the deutsche mark; and (2) a max imum ratio of 60% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own funds, excluding the deutsche mark. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement July 1. The Bulgarian lev was pegged to the deutsche mark in the context of a cur- rency board arrangement. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 16. The bilateral payment arrangement and/or barter agreement w i th Pakistan was terminated. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions January 22. The bilateral payment arrangement and/or barter agreement w i th Ch ina was terminated. February 14. The Regulation on the 1997 Export and Import Regime was amended several times in 1997, altering import bans, import registration arrangements, and import tariff rates and coverage. The regulation was abolished on November 28, 1997. July 1. The import surcharge was reduced to 4% from 5%. February 14. The Regulation on the 1997 Export and Import Regime was amended several times in 1997, altering export bans, export registration arrangements, and ex- port tariff rates and coverage. October 1. The export tax on cereals was reduced to 10% from 15%. Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts October 24. The requirement that portfolio inves tmen ts by nonresidents be registered at the MOF was abolished. Controls on direct inves tment October 24. The requirement that direct inves tmen ts by nonresidents be registered at the MOF was abolished. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Changes During 1998 January 1. The Regulation on the 1998 Export and Import Regime altered import bans, import registration arrangements, and import tar iff rates and coverage. January 1. The Regulation on the 1998 Export and Import Regime abolished certain export bans, altered the coverage of export registration arrangements, abolished the export tax on cereals, and amended certain export taxes. Taxes were reduced on aver- age by 40%. January 13. The requirements for observing open foreign currency positions were increased. Each bank is required to observe da i ly and as of the date of the preparation of its mon th ly report (1) a max imum ratio of 25% between its open position in any particular currency and the amount of its own funds, excluding the deutsche mark; and (2) a max imum ratio of 60% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own fund s, excluding the deutsche mark. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Burk ina Faso is the CFA franc issued by the BCEAO. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate be- tween the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. No. No. A new decree issued in 1997 stipulates that forward exchange cover may be arranged by importers under cond i t ions to be specified by a subsequent circular. The imp lemen- ta t ion circular has not yet been adopted. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Reg ional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Bu rk ina Faso is linked to the French Treasury th rough an Operations Ac- coun t, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in the currencies of those countries, or through foreign ac- counts in CFA francs, in French francs, or in other currencies of the Operations Ac- count area. Yes. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). The approval au tho r i ty for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, fo rwa rd exchange cover, and the opening of external accounts in for- eign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, wh ich is also authorized to collect, e i ther d irec t ly or th rough banks, f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, or jud ic ial agents, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 BURKINA FASO All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, or the BCEAO. Settlements w i th a coun- try outside the Operations Account area must be fo rma l ly approved by the customs adm in is tra t ion. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Res truc tur ing of arrears of debts to L ibya and the Baltic countries, Russ ia, and the o ther countries of the FSU is in progress. n.a. Imports of gold require prior MOF au thor iza t ion, wh ich is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing m inor qu an t i t i es of gold (such as gold- f i l led or gold-plated articles); and (3) impor ts by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of gold have been liberalized since May 1996, and on that date, the monopoly granted to the Comptoir Bu rk inabe des me taux precieux was extended for a t rans i- t ional period of one year. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and their correspondents s i tua ted outside the WAEMU are o f f ic ia l ly proh ib i ted. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above th is ceiling requires documen ta t ion demons tra t ing either the impo r ta t ion of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or th rough the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. There are no restrictions on the importation by resident or nonresident travelers of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. The ho ld ing of these accounts is subject to prior approval by the MOF upon the rec- ommendation of the BCEAO and in coordination w i th the Cha i rman of the Council of Ministers of the WAEMU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 155 Held abroad The ho ld ing of these accounts is not exp l ic i t ly proh ib i ted, but regulations p roh ib it any transfer tending to develop a resident's foreign holdings, unless approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The holding of these accounts is not expressly covered by regulations. In practice, based on an in te rp re ta t ion of the regu la t ions, such holdings requ ire the prior approval of the MOF. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of bankno tes c i rcu la t ing ou ts ide the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior authori- zation of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currencies on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Imports and Import Payments No. No. All import transactions exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion must be domiciled w i th an author- ized bank. Presh ipment inspection An inspection is required for qua l i ty and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l ist Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs A technical import v isa (certificat de conformite) is required for sugar, insecticides, wheat and cereal f lou r, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, vegetable oil, m i lk, elec- trical batteries, food preserves, and rice. The M in is try of Indus try, Commerce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the MOF, waive the prescribed for- malities for imports from countries w i th which Burk ina Faso has concluded a customs un ion or free-trade-area agreement. Import licenses were eliminated and replaced w i th Pre-Import Declarations (DPIs) issued for all impo rt operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Imports of ivory and f i sh ing nets w i th a mesh smaller than 3 square centimeters are restricted. Imports, w i th a few exceptions, are subject to customs duties of 5%; the rates on ce- reals range from 4% to 26%, p lus a s ta t is t ical tax of 4%. All imports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a solidarity communal levy of 1%, and imports of certain goods that are also locally produced are subject to a pro- tection tax ranging from 10% to 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 BURKINA FASO Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on which payments fall due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such foreign ex- change to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. No. n.a. n.a. All export transactions of more than CFAF 3 million must be domiciled w i th an authorized intermediary bank. Export licenses were eliminated and replaced w i th preexport declarations (DPEs) issued for exports valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to spe- cial regulations. Export taxes Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical du ty of 3%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to indicative limits and/or bona fide tests. Profit/dividends Indicative limits/bona fide test Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits The limits are CFAF 500,000 a trip a tourist and CFAF 75,000 a person a day for business travel. Transfers abroad for the amortization of loans do not require approval. However, payments for depreciation of direct investments require the approval of the MOF, since depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Prior approval is required on ly for those foreign exchange allowances in excess of the indicative limits. Such approval is granted after a bona fide test. For travel outside the franc zone, the limits are the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion a person a tr ip for tour ist travel, w i th no l im it on the number of trips or age d is t inc t ions, and the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 a person a day for business travel over a period of one month. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 157 Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limits are those applicable to tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 50,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in eight days of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments W i th respect to capital transactions between Burk ina Faso and foreign countries, the term "foreign countries" refers to all countries that are not members of the WAEMU. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Foreign investments in Bu rk ina Faso, loans from residents l iv ing abroad, and issues or sales of foreign securities in Burkina Faso require a simple declaration for statistical purposes. The prior approval of the MOF is required for the fo l low ing transactions: inves tmen ts and loans abroad; door-to-door sales; advertisements, commun iques, or announce- ments for investing funds abroad or subscribing for construction projects located abroad. The issuance and sale of securities in Burk ina Faso must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. A resident may purchase securities issued or sold by a nonresident only after obtaining prior authorization from the MOF. There is no restriction on the sale of securities constituting the liquidation of an investment when it takes the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, provided that the f inanc ial settle- ment of the operation is in order. The settlement of a securities operation by outward transfer or by deposit to a nonres iden t's account requires an exchange au thor iza t ion, wh ich must be approved by the MOF, as well as documents attesting to the va l id i ty of the operation. These operations, as well as the outward transfer of funds for this purpose, require prior authorization from the MOF. Residents are free to sell the shares of resident companies abroad. The sale of securi- ties constituting the liquidation of an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MOF, and the proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized in termed iary bank. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares and securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance and sale of securities in Bu rk ina Faso by nonresidents require prior au tho r iza t ion from the MOF. These operations, as well as the ou tward transfer of funds for th is purpose, require prior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions require au thor iza t ion by the MOF. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issues and sales must be reported to the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 BURKINA FASO Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents These operations, as well as the ou tward transfer of funds for th is purpose, requ ire prior authorization from the MOF. Residents may freely sell money market ins trumen ts abroad. Sales cons t i tu t ing the liquidation of an inves tment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an au thor ized in te rmed i- ary bank. Money market ins trumen ts issued abroad by residents are subject to the regulations on borrowing. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issues and sales must be reported to the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents Au tho r iza t ion is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents These ins t rumen ts, wh ich are v i r tu a l ly nonex is tent in Bu rk ina Faso, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and inves tmen ts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on wh ich payment falls due is not more than 120 days after the date of sh ipmen t. For credits in connection w i th services rendered there are no restrictions, provided that payment takes place no more than one month after the date on wh ich payment fa l ls due. There are no restrictions, and repayments of commercial credits are generally ap- proved, subject to the presentation of documents attesting to the va l id i ty of the com- mercial operation or of the services rendered, as well as the payment due date. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange au thor iza t ion, subject to the approval of the BCEAO acting on behalf of the MOF and subs tan t ia ted by documen ta t ion. There are no restrictions on these credits, but they must be reported for s ta t is t ical pu r- poses. The necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized agent. There are no restrictions on repayments of loans, provided that the authorized agent hand l ing the settlement is provided w i th documentation attesting to the va l id i ty of the transaction. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions on the granting of these facilities, and the funds invo lved must be transferred from abroad through an authorized in te rmed ia ry. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inves tmen ts (including real estate purchases) made abroad by residents are subject to prior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. The inves tor must make the request in w r i t ing and designate the authorized in termed iary that w i ll execute the payment. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by deposit to a foreign account in francs, it cannot be executed un t il after the period agreed to by the parties. Inward direct inves tment Inward investments must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation is subject to MOF approval. After settlement, the l iqu ida t ion or sale must be reported to the MOF and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 159 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Investments made abroad by residents require prior authorization from the MOF. The investor must make the request in w r i t ing and designate the authorized in termed iary that w i ll execute the paymen t. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by deposit to a foreign account in francs, it cannot be executed u n t il after the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions on these purchases. Sale locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for the liquidation of direct investment. Controls on personal capital movements Loans The same regu la t ions app ly as for securities and inves tmen ts. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Au thor iza t ion of the MOF is required. In general, inher i tances and dowries are authorized g if ts; endowments require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Imm ig ran ts who have acquired resident status must obtain prior approval from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets This requires au thor iza t ion of the MOF. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers may be made upon submission of emigration documents to the authorized agent hand l ing the settlement. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) MOF approval is required. There are no restrictions if these operations invo lve com- mercial credits. Prior au thor iza t ion from the MOF is required for loans, f inanc ial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange The same regulations app ly as for lending to nonresidents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The same regulations apply as for lend ing to nonresidents. Credit controls Yes. D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no d is t inc t ion between resident deposit accounts, nonresi- dent deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for direct investments. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are no p ruden t ial ratios. Open positions resu lt from special dispensations. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Bu rundi is the Burundi franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Burundi franc is pegged to a basket of currencies of Bu rund i 's main trading part- ners. The Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (BRB) quotes the exchange rate for 15 currencies, the ECU, and the SDR. Commercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on the ir own account and on behalf of the ir customers at rates w i th in max imum margins of ±1% of the middle rate established by the BRB. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to borrow foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Exporters of coffee are also allowed to borrow foreign exchange through their banks or from their customers for purposes of crop f inanc ing and hedging against exchange risks. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade w i th the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements w i th these countries are effected through a clearing process, w i th balances paid in convertible currencies. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay the ir hotel bills by selling con- vertible currencies or by us ing a credit card. Payment in Bu rundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or ind iv idual has as- sumed responsibility w i th prior au thor iza t ion from the BRB and in the case of na t ion- als of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the CEPGL. There are trade agreements w i th the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo and Rwanda. Regional agreements exist w i th Eastern and Southern A f r ican countries. Clearing agreements exist w i th members of COMESA and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the BRB; au thor i ty to carry out some transactions is delegated to six authorized banks. International security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial No. Yes. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 161 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Holders of gold mining permits issued by the ministers responsible for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burund i. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Bu rundi francs at the average daily rates commu- nicated by the BRB. Gold exports are authorized jo in t ly by the m in ing and customs departments. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. n.a. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in add i t ion to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Exporters of non trad i t ional products and enterprises in free trade zones may hold for- eign exchange accounts. Authorized banks may freely open foreign exchange accounts, but must forward cop- ies of relevant documents to the BRB. Held abroad Prior BRB au thor iza t ion is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts may be maintained by (1) na tural and juridical persons of foreign na- tionality who reside abroad, (2) enterprises authorized to operate in the free trade zone, (3) exporters of nontraditional products who are authorized to retain 50% of the ir export proceeds, (4) Bu rundi nationals residing abroad, and (5) any other natural or jur id ical persons authorized by the BRB. These accounts may be credited freely w i th any convertible currency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion in to Bu rundi francs for payments in Burund i; and (2) paymen ts abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods, except for banknotes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and commissions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) up to the equ iva lent of $100 may be w i thd rawn in banknotes upon presenta- tion of travel documents. W i thd rawa ls in excess of this amount are subject to the prior au thor iza t ion of the central bank. If no deposits are made to the foreign account w i th in three mon ths of its opening, the account must be closed. Accounts in convertible Bu rundi francs may be ma in ta ined by (1) natural persons of foreign nationality (such as staff of diplomatic missions) who are temporarily ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 BURUNDI established in Bu rund i, (2) ju r id ical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty w i th special status (such as diplomatic missions and in terna t ional organizations), and (3) any other natu- ral or ju r id ical persons authorized by the BRB. These accounts may be credited freely w i th any convertible currency, and they may be debited freely for w i thd rawa ls of Bu- rundi francs or for conversion in to foreign exchange. Up to the equ iva lent of $100 in fore ign cu r rency may be w i t h d r awn in banknotes upon presentation of travel docu- men ts (a passport and an a ir l ine ticket) for an un l im i t ed number of trips. W i thd rawa ls of banknotes in excess of th is amount are subject to the prior au thor iza t ion of the BRB. These accounts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection For the t ime being, a deposit of 25% of the declared va lue of the merchandise is pay- able when an impo rt and payment declaration is au thor ized. All goods imported into Bu rundi must be insured by approved Bu rundi insurers, and p rem iums mu st be pa id in B u r u n di francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 3 m i l l ion in va lue (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection w i th regard to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, and price by an interna- tional supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Bu rundi authorities. Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Import taxes and/or tariffs For the t ime be ing, impor ts of luxu ry or nonessential goods may not be traded at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Bu rundi is a member of the COMES A. There are f ive customs du ty bands (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMES A. Imports of petroleum products are subject to import duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, wh ich replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c .i .f. va lue of im- ports, in add i t ion to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds mu st be collected w i t h in 30 days of the date of export declaration at cus toms for sh ipm ent by air or w i t h in 90 days for all other sh ipmen ts. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from exports of non trad i t ional products are set by the bank carry ing out the operation. All proceeds from t rad i t ional exports mu st be surrendered to an authorized bank. Ex- porters of non t rad i t ional products may retain up to 50% of proceeds, compared to 30% previously. Exporters operating in the free trade area are not required to surren- der their export proceeds to an authorized bank. No. No. No. Export taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally app l icab le rate is 5%. For green coffee, the rate is set at each crop season. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 163 Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs All payments for invisibles require approval and, in most cases, are subject to indica- tive limits and/or bona fide tests. Shipping insurance on coffee exports norma l ly must be taken out in Bu rundi francs w i th a Bu rundi insurer. Indicative limits/bona fide test These transfers are limited to amounts indicated by invoice. Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits n.a. n.a. Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors after payment of taxes. A i r l ines are author- ized to transfer abroad 100% of the ir earnings af ter deduction of local expenses. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for maintenance expenses). The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is $200 a person a day or its equivalent ($250 for exporters), subject to a max imum limit of 15 days a trip. There is no limit on the number of trips for each person. The l im it is FBu 700,000, w i th additional transfers allowed upon presentation of sup- porting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test A supporting medical certificate is required. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits L im i ts depend on whe ther the student is an undergraduate or a postgraduate. Indicative limits/bona fide test Enrollment and graduation certificates are required. Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Limited to amounts indicated by invoices. Limited to amoun ts indicated by invoices. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign na t iona ls res id ing and work ing in Bu rundi are perm i t ted to transfer abroad up to 70% of the ir net a n n u al income (80% in the case of foreign na t iona ls work ing for companies that export at least 50% of their production). Indicative limits/bona fide test A work contract is requ ired. Pensions Indicative limits/bona fide test App l ica t ions must be subm i t ted to the Social Security In s t i tu te. Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Quantitative limits n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 BURUNDI Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits The l im it is FBu 150,000 a month, but is temporarily suspended. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards is not permitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require ind iv idual authorization. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 165 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital on wh ich a repatriation guarantee has been granted requ ire ind iv idual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Borrowing abroad Prior approval of the BRB is required. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Prior approval of the BRB is required. Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian riel. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the off ic ial rate and the market rate. Ad jus tmen ts to the official exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) to l im it the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 1%. In practice, the spread exceeds this range from time to time. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the government and state-owned enterprises. The NBC quotes daily official rates at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia buys and sells foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy and sell for- eign exchange at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests w i th the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance and the NBC. The NBC is authorized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. A new foreign ex- change law aligning the de ju re regime w i th current practice was adopted by the Na t ional Assembly on August 22, 1997. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The export or import of raw gold is subject to prior declaration to the NBC if the va lue of each transaction equals or exceeds $10,000. The export or import of a means of payment equa l ing or exceeding $10,000 in foreign exchange or its equivalent in domestic currency by a traveler shall be declared to cus- toms officers at border crossings of Cambodia. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically CAMBODIA 167 Yes. Exports are subject to prior notification to the NBC. Same regulations apply as for exports. Yes. There are no limits, but imports must be declared on en try. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. There are no l im i ts on the balances of these accounts; the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations, and all transactions can be settled in foreign currency. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between resi- dents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Authorized intermediaries may be required by the NBC to subm it proof of payment of imports by a banker's order in support of their applications to purchase foreign ex- change, and may later also be required to provide various documentary evidence con- f i rm ing the entry of goods into the country. When the collection is made, the proceeds from exports of goods or services shall be credited to the exporter's account w i th the domiciled bank in accordance with Article 8 of the existing law. Preshipment import inspection is required for most goods. Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of na- tional security, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import duties are levied, and an excise tax of 10% applies to selected imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 CAMBODIA Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters or importers of goods and services must make payments for their commer- cial transactions with other countries through authorized intermediaries. When the collection is made, proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account w i th a domiciled bank. Yes. Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between resi- dents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. n.a. n.a. The proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account w i th a domiciled bank in accordance with Article 8 of the existing law. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the M in is try of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed t im- ber, logs, and rice. Exports of rice, gems, and sawed timber are subject to a quota. Exports of an t iques are restricted. An excise tax of 10% of the estimated market value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are not restricted but are regulated by the In- vestment Law. Payments for travel Quantitative limits An exchange allowance of $10,000 a person is granted at the o f f ic ial rate for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay; amounts in excess of th is l im it must be approved by the NBC. In practice, however, the l im i ts are not enforced. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The requirement applies only to state-owned enterprises. Surrender requirements Only proceeds from inv is ib les earned by state-owned enterprises must be surrendered. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no specific laws on capital market securities, and there is no issue of securi- ties in national currency. Such operations must be under taken solely th rough banks permanently established in Cambodia that are considered as authorized intermediaries. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 169 In the event of a foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be imple- mented for a max imum period of three mon ths, imposing certain temporary restric- tions on the ac t iv i ty of authorized intermediaries, par t icu lar ly on capital and money market securities. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no derivatives in national currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between resi- dents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. The NBC may, in the event of a foreign exchange crisis, issue regulations to be implemented for a maximum period of three months, impos ing certain temporary restrictions on the activity of authorized intermediaries. Yes. Yes. Yes. The requirement of government approval is not enforced. Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for the Develop- ment of Cambodia, but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign direct inves tment tak ing place in accordance w i th the provisions of the investment law of Cambodia may be transferred freely. However, such transfers shall be made through authorized intermediaries, which must report to the NBC all amounts equal to or exceeding $100,000. On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia, Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Controls on personal capital movements Loans Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between resi- dents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Yes. Transfer of assets Such operations must take place through authorized intermediaries. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Authorized intermediaries must provide the NBC w i th periodic statements in the form of transfers or settlements and of ou tf lows and in f lows of capital carried out between ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 CAMBODIA Cambodia and other countries. Any exports of cash in foreign currency by authorized intermediaries are subject to prior declaration to the NBC. Loans and borrowings, inc lud ing trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. However, in the event of a foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be implemented for a max imum period of three months, imposing certain temporary restrictions on the ac t iv i ty of authorized intermediaries, par t icu lar ly on certain transactions specified in the law, on the ir foreign exchange position, or on any loans in domestic currency extended to nonresidents. Banks may lend to residents doing business w i th in Cambodia. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange n.a. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. n.a. There are global and ind iv idu al l im i ts. Yes. Yes. Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long positions in any single foreign currency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of the bank 's net worth. Residents and nonresidents are not treated d i f fe ren t ly. There are no ins t i tu t ional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts August 22. A new law on foreign exchange was enacted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5% is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, pay- ments for imports covered by a du ly issued license and domiciled w i th a bank, sched- uled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and off ic ial representation expenses paid by the government and its agencies for off ic ial m iss ions, and paymen ts of re insurance p rem iums. No. No. Forward exchange cover requires the prior au thor iza t ion of the exchange control authorities. It mu st be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the contract, and the ma tu r i ty period mu st be between three mon ths and n ine mon ths. Settlements must be effected w i th in eight days of the ma tu r i ty date of the forward contract. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other coun- tries are usua l ly made th rough correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in French francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements There are clearing arrangements in the context of the CEEAC. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and Exter- nal Finance of the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). Exchange transac t ions re la t ing to all countries must be effected th rough authorized in termed iar ies (i.e., the Postal Adm in i- s tra t ion and au thor ized banks). 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 CAMEROON International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe lry in Cameroon. Ap- proval of the M in is t ry of Mines, Water, and Energy (MMWE) is required to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, inc lud ing jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the MMWE, wh ich authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus t r ial users. Exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior au tho r iza t ion of the MMWE and the MOF, a l though such au thor iza t ion is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from th is require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Yes. All resident travelers, regardless of des t ina t ion, must declare in w r i t ing all means of payment at the ir disposal at the t ime of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; reexportation above th is ceiling requires documentation showing either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. Imports of domestic currency are permitted w i t h in authorized l im i ts at the t ime of departure. Resident Accounts Yes. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Only accounts of CFA francs convertible into foreign currency are perm i t ted. App roval required n.a. Domestic currency accounts The regu la t ions per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Since the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside its zone of issue, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of au thor ized banks and ma i led to the BEAC agency in Yaounde (cap i tal of Cameroon) may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFAF francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 173 Nonresidents are allowed to ma in ta in bank accounts in convertible francs; however, prior approval is required. These accounts, held ma in ly by diplomatic missions, inter- national ins t i tu t ions, and their nonresident employees, may be credited on ly w i th (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign currencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance w i th exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other non- resident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to residents in accordance w i th exchange regulations. Nonresidents may not ma in ta in accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Convertible in to foreign currency Such accounts may be credited and debited on ly w i th foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Import paymen ts are made in accordance w i th the terms of the unde r ly ing contracts. However, advance paymen ts (i.e., before actual delivery of goods) are au thor ized up to 50% of the value of imports. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted if stipulated by the unde r ly ing contracts. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Presh ipment inspection All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 2 m i l l ion must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized intermediary. Transactions invo lv ing goods in trans it must be domiciled w i th a foreign bank. Imports from all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS (Societe generate de surveillance). Letters of credit LCs are allowed but are optional. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Import licenses have been abolished for 90% of imports. Importers b r ing ing in more than CFAF 2 m i l l ion of goods are required to subm it an import declaration to the pri- vate inspection agency (SGS). In general, licenses have been replaced by simple decla- rations to the banks, but imports of certain products are still subject to l icens ing. A list is pub l ished annua l ly by the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Trade (MINDIC) in the Programme general des echanges (PGE). Certain impor ts are prohibited for ecological, hea l th, or safety reasons. Such licenses are available for long-term supp ly contracts. Quotas are applicable to imports by container. Import ta r i f fs range from 5% to 30%. Duties on products from members of the UDEAC are 20% of the rates applicable to nonmembers. Import surcharges apply to imports from countries outside the UDEAC. An impo rt surcharge of 20% is applied to maize meal, wh i le a 10% surcharge is app l ied to im- ports of cement. There is a state impo rt monopoly on ly for impor ts relating to sovereign expend i ture (such as defense and security). In add i t ion, the na t ional oil ref inery (SONARA) has a monopo ly on the supp ly of refined petroleum products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the pay- ment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from the repatria- t ion requ iremen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 CAMEROON Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in the eight-day period fo l low ing repatriation. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system LCs are optional. Exports to all countries are subject to dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts for the appropr ia te documents. Export transactions valued at CFAF 2 m i l l ion or more must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Licenses are required for all exports valued at the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion and above. Export licenses are issued by the MOF. Yes. An export tax of 10% is levied on coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, sugar, pa lm oil, and med ic inal p lan ts; a specific tax of CFAF 4,000 a ton is levied on bananas. An export tax of 17.5% is applied to timber, and a rate of 12.5% is applied to the log equ iva lent of processed woods. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Commissions Prior approval All payments and transfers are subject to prior approval, indicative and quan t i ta t ive l im i ts, and/or bona fide test. Payments in excess of CFAF 2 million for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade fo l low the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily who have been insured prev ious ly, residents and nonresidents are not allowed to contract insurance abroad when the same services are available in Cameroon. However, the paymen ts of p rem iums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Prior approval is required for advance payments (up to 50%). Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Residents t rave l ing for tou r ism or business purposes to countries other th an France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be granted foreign exchange al- lowances subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, up to CFAF 5 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, up to CFAF 10 million a trip; and (3) allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC. Re tu rn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arr ival at cus- toms and to surrender them w i th in eight days. The transfer of up to 50% of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permit- ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher and of the most recent tax return. The use of credit cards, wh i ch mu st be issued by resident f in an c i al intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tour ism and busi- ness travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 175 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected w i th in one mon th of the due date. Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered w i t h in one month of collection. Re tu rn- ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them w i th in the fo l low ing eight-day period. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transactions between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, except for foreign direct inves tmen ts and borrowing, wh ich are subject to registration and authorization. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions are permitted, provided a declaration is made to the MOF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection with shares s im i lar to securities, when their issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale in Cameroon has already been au thor ized. All foreign securities and titles embodying c la ims on nonresidents must be deposited w i th an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Yes. n .a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Such purchases require the agreement of the MOF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans consti- tu t ing a direct inves tment abroad for wh ich prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the render ing of services abroad by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 CAMEROON To residents from nonresidents the persons or f irms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in wh ich these persons or f i rms take part; and (3) loans of up to CFAF 500,000, provided the ma tur i ty does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6% a year. Borrowing abroad by natural and jur id ical persons, whether pub l ic or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MOF and must subsequently be reported to it. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f irms mentioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or f i rms take part; (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit ins t i tu t ions; and (3) loans backed by a guarantee from the government. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Prior declaration is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Direct inves tmen ts abroad ( inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon) require prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from the re inves tment of un- distributed prof i ts or do not exceed 20% of the fair market va lue of the company being purchased. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon ( inc lud ing those made by companies in Cam- eroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon) require prior declaration to the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the MOF has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the decla- ration during wh ich it may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct inves tmen ts in Cameroon requires only a report to the MOF, un less the operation invo lves the re l inqu i sh ing of a participation that had previously been approved as con s t i tu t ing a direct inve s tment in Cameroon. Yes. n.a. n.a. Subject to precautionary provisions in respect of registered capital laid down by the Banking Commission, the composition of the registered capital of a credit establish- ment is freely defined by its social organs. Banks w i th foreign ma jor i ty participation must subm it to the monetary authorities informa t ion on all current transactions abroad and obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of the ir equ i ty holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the monetary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Borrowing abroad Yes. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Correspondent accounts are perm i t ted. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks may lend to nonresidents who ma in ta in accounts w i th them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 177 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents No deposit accounts in foreign exchange are permitted. Only deposits in convertible CFA francs are permitted for nonresidents. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. The Canadian authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions. The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to promote orderly conditions in the market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are freely determined in the exchange market. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affa irs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada notified the IMF on July 23, 1992, that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Canada imposed restrictions on f inanc ial transactions w i th Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 942. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 179 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are frozen, pu rsuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits are required for the importation of certain agricultural products, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy, certain m i l i- tary armamen ts, and certain in terna t iona l ly controlled drugs. In addition, Health Canada does not perm it the impor ta t ion of drugs not registered with it. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohib- ited. However, the p roh ib i t ion of impor ts of used vehicles from the United States was e l im ina ted in 1994. The p roh ib i t ion on imports of used vehicles from Mexico w i ll be phased out by J anu a ry 1, 2019. Yes. Imports of some c lo th ing and certain textile products, usua l ly in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the MFA nego- tiated w i th in the framework of the GATT, are also subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. In accordance w i th the provisions of the U ruguay Round Agreement on textiles and clothing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and c lo th ing is being liberal- ized in stages over a 10-year period beginning Janua ry 1, 1995. As a result of the comm i tmen ts made under the U ruguay Round Agreement, Canada has agreed to re- place all agr icu l tural import restrictions w i th ta r i ff rate quotas and to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the U ruguay Round (or under the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement). Measures consistent w i th international trade obligations (e.g., antidumping, counter- va i l ing duties, and safeguard provisions) are maintained. Under the terms of the Canada-Chile Free Trade Agreement (July 5, 1997), the two countries agreed to mu- tual exemption from an t idump ing measures for each other's goods when the applica- ble tar iff has been e l im ina ted in both countries or after six years, whichever is earlier. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 CANADA Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Certain monopolies exist at the federal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Industrial List, and the International Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons and for purposes of promoting fur ther processing in Canada (e.g., logs and herring roe) and for nonproliferation purposes (chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to wh ich all exports are controlled. At present, the following countries are on the Area Control List: Angola, Myanmar, and Libya. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States, as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inwa rd direct inve s tmen ts in the broadcasting, telecom- mun ica t ions, transpor ta t ion, f inanc ia l, f ishe ry, and energy sectors. In add i t ion, under the provision of the Investment Canada Act new foreign inves tmen ts are generally subject to notification requirements but not to review requirements. As a result of the NAFTA, on ly direct acquisitions of businesses w i th assets exceeding Can$172 m i l l ion for 1997 and Can$179 million for 1998 were subject to rev iew. Indirect acqu is i t ions are no longer subject to review. These provisions were mu l t i la te ra l ized as part of Can- ada's implementation of the U ruguay Round results. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test prov ing that they w i ll yield a net benefit to Canada. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 1 81 D ifferent thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in cu l tu ra l ly sensitive sectors. The direct acquisition of a business w i th assets greater than Can$5 million and the indirect acquisition of a business w i th assets greater than Can$50 million, and indirect acquisition invo lv ing Can$5 million to Can$50 million assets representing more than 50% of the value of the total in terna t ional transaction in question, is subject to review. The establishment of a new business, the direct acquisition of a business with assets of less than Can$172 million in 1997 and Can$179 m i l l ion for 1998, and the indirect acquisition of a business by investors from WTO members are not subject to review and need only be notified, except in cases when the Canadian business represents 50% or more of the va lue of the total assets acquired in the international acquisition. (The acquisition of a Canadian enterprise may be considered "direct" when it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation carrying on a Canadian business, and "indirect" when it involves the transfer of control by share acquisition of a non-Canadian corpo- ration that controls a Canadian corporation carrying on a Canadian business.) The direct acquisition of a business whose assets exceed the above-mentioned l im it is reviewed and assessed according to its net benefit to Canada, authorization being gen- erally granted. All acquisitions or investments to establish a new business in cu l tural sectors such as book publishing, sound recording, and f i lm production are normally subject to review. Reviewable cases must be resolved within 75 days, unless the inves- tor agrees to a longer time period. In practice, most cases are resolved w i th in 45 days. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions There are no controls; however, w i thho ld ing taxes apply to sale locally or by nonresidents. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. No. Exports and export proceeds August 11. Myanmar was added to the Area Control List. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to a weighted basket of the currencies of the most important suppliers of imports and sources of em igrant remittances, inc lud ing the United States. The composition of the basket is revised annua l ly; weights are deter- mined using a fo rmu la giving a two-thirds weight to imports and a one-third weight to remittances. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo is expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. A bilateral agreement was signed between Cape Verde and Portugal on March 13, 1998, and shortly after- ward the authorities moved to a single currency peg and adopted the Portuguese es- cudo as the reference currency. The authorities w i ll adopt the euro as the reference currency from January 1, 1999. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange w i th the general pub l ic are conducted by the two commercial banks, Banca Commercial do A t lan t ico (BCA) and Caija Economia de Cabo Verde (CECV). Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated in convertible currencies. There are agreements w i th Angola and Sao Tome and Principe, under wh ich Cape Verde is a net creditor. n.a. n.a. n.a. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV), the central bank. n.a. Yes. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 183 Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and/or trade n .a. n .a. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold requ ire prior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is permitted up to specified l im i t s. Residents t rave l ing abroad may take out the equ iva lent of C.V. Esc 100,000. The impo r ta t ion of domestic currency is permitted up to specified l im i ts. Foreign travelers may import foreign currency up to specified l im i t s. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Special au tho r iza t ion is required from the BCV, and only entities authorized to deal in foreign exchange are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign enterprises may ma in ta in accounts in foreign currency. Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are ava i lab le for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange deposit accounts, (2) sav ings-cred it deposit accounts, and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts may be credited on ly w i th convertible foreign curren- cies and allow holders of sav ings-cred it deposit accounts to benef it from loans on special terms for f inanc ing small-scale projects. Interest on such accounts may be freely remitted abroad. Prior approval is required. Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited on ly w i th the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of con- ver t ib le currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign off ic ia ls of embassies are required to open special accounts in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exc lus ive ly w i th foreign exchange. Convertible in to foreign currency App roval required Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000 and not invo lv ing paymen ts from the coun t ry 's foreign exchange resources are subject to a preregistration requ i remen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 CAPE VERDE Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the BCV and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Licenses are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Yes. n.a. n.a. Most locally produced food items and beverages (e.g., f ish, bread, tomatoes, bananas, cereals, salt, beer, and soft drinks) are subject to a global annual import quota; some items (e.g., potatoes, onions, and poultry) are subject to seasonal quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. State import monopoly The importation of maize, rice, sugar, and cooking oil is conducted by state monopolies. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months, but this period may be extended. Yes. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 200,000, approval is required for freight/insurance, unloading/storage costs, administration expenses, commissions, interest payments, consulting and legal fees, pensions, and gamb l ing and prize earnings. Most other payments require prior approval. Information is not available on indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests for payments and transfers for the amortization or depreciation of direct inves tmen t, travel, medical costs, study abroad, foreign workers' wages, pensions, gamb l ing and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, and the use of credit cards abroad. For business travel, the foreign currency allowance varies according to the coun t ry of des t ina t ion and the du ra t ion of each trip. For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000, approval is required. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits CAPE VERDE 185 The amount varies according to medical needs. For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000, approval is required. The l im it is C.V. Esc 100,000 on leaving the coun try; students who do not hold schol- arships are, in addition, entitled to a mon th ly allowance that varies according to the coun try of destination. Subscriptions and membersh ip fees n.a. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earn ings Quantitative limits Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel work ing in Cape Verde are authorized w i th in the l im i ts specified in the ind iv idual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. n.a. Yes. Yes. For amounts exceeding C.V. Esc 50,000, approval is required, n.a. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv i s ib les must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Surrender requirements Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Cap i tal transac t ions must be approved in advance by the BCV, but legally imported cap i ta l, inc lud ing foreign direct inves tmen t, may be reexported w i thout l im i ta t ion. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 CAPE VERDE Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies Se t t lemen ts of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. For direct investments exceeding $100,000, a permit is required. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits CAPE VERDE 187 Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The BCA and the CECV are allowed net foreign exchange positions of up to the equ iva lent of $1.5 m i l l ion and $1 m i l l ion, respectively. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement March 13. The exchange rate arrangement of Cape Verde was reclassified to "pegged: single currency" from "pegged: currency composite." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25% is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, exporters and importers may al- ways cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market, as allowed by the fixed peg w i th the French franc. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts hav ing a direct or ind i- rect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). The Autonomous Amor t iza t ion Fund (CAADE) of the MOF super- vises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions of the same M in is- try supervises lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and inward and ou tward direct inves tmen t. Exchange control is administered by the MOF, wh ich has delegated some approval au tho r i ty to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, g ran t ing of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the repatriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal A dm i n i- stration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun tr ies must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made th rough the Directorate 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 189 of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, wh ich are to be made through the BE AC. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) im- ports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been off ic ia l ly appointed as Of- fices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one BEAC country to another. Exports of banknotes outside the BEAC zone are prohibited. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of for- eign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from another BEAC country. Imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC zone are prohibited. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id i c al persons Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Na tural persons n.a. Domestic currency accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the terri- tories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspon- dents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required n.a. n.a. Financing requirements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments Yes. Yes. Yes. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection is required for coffee, cotton, and diamonds. n.a. Import declarations are required for all imports, and the import license entitles import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. The UDEAC CET applies. There are four rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inpu ts, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra-UDEAC tariff is 20% of the CET. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be collected and repatriated w i th in one month of the due date, wh ich must not be later than 90 days after the arr ival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than French francs or those of an Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered. n.a. n.a. All export transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 191 Preshipment inspection The Office de reglementation, de controle et de conditionnement des produits agri- coles (ORCCPA) requires preshipment inspection for coffee. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system All exports require a declaration. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv i s ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. However, pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authorization. Profit/dividends Transfers are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved, Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Residents trave l ing to other countries of the franc zone may obtain an un l im i ted allo- cation in French francs. W i th in the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes may be exported w i thout limit. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, w i th a max i- mum of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are sub- ject to the au thor iza t ion of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC. Re tu rn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arr ival at customs and surrender w i th in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes reg- istered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required that such means of payment have been purchased w i th funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or w i th other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of the limits are norma l ly granted. Medical costs Quantitative limits The allowance for persons trave l ing to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons is CFAF 100,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The l im it is CFAF 1 m i l l ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Foreign nationals wo rk ing in the BEAC zone are allowed to transfer 50% of the ir net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period concerned. The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident f in an c i al in termed iar ies and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings set for tour ism and business trave l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of l im i ts are norma l ly granted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in one month of the due date. If payment is received in foreign currency, it must be surrendered w i th in one mon th of the date of receipt. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movements between the Central Afr ican Republic and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i- can Republic requires prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the government; and (2) shares similar to securities when their issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central A f r ican Republic has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 193 Lending abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afr ican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authori- zation from the MOF. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Fi- nancial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Foreign borrowing by the government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiar- ies in the Central African Republic of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from th is authorization are (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of serv- ices abroad by the persons or f i rms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of com- mercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad, or between foreign countries in wh ich those persons or f i rms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be re- ported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Yes. Yes. Direct inves tmen ts abroad, including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central Afr ican Repub- lic, require the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resu l t ing from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Inves tmen ts must be declared to the MOF, unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resu l t ing from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MOF may request a postponement of up to two months from receipt of the declaration. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion of investments requires prior approval from the MOF, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French f ranc at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transac t ions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate and are free of comm iss ion. B u y i ng and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the cur- rencies concerned. All transfers and exchange operations are subject to a comm iss ion levied by the Treasury. The commission rate amoun ts to 0.25% in the CFA f ranc zone and 0.5% outside the CFA franc zone. No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance (MOF). O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since Chad is an Operations Account coun t ry, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made in the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled th rough a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Exchange control is administered by the MOF, but it has delegated approval au tho r i ty in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, wh ich issues in s t ruc t ions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions re la t ing to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through authorized banks. The MOF supervises pub l ic and private sector borrow ing and lend ing abroad; the i s su ing, adver t is ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and ou twa rd direct inves tmen t. It also issues import and export au tho r iza t ions for gold. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Yes. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency CHAD 195 Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the MOF and the Directorate of Geological and M in ing Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities; and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside that of the BEAC is prohibited. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take w i th them an un l im i ted amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation shall depend on the type of travel and can be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank draf ts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. Approval is required to open these accounts. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circu- lating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 CHAD by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to countries outside the BEAC mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of sulphur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with four tariff bands. Tariffs on imports from the UDEAC countries were reduced to 10% in 1996 and eliminated on January 1, 1998. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The import monopoly on sugar was lifted on January 1, 1997. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received w i th in 180 days of the a r r ival of the com- modities at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Account coun try must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions to foreign countries exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 197 Some current paymen ts, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, non- residents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies w i th equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than one year), are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not CFA franc zone members w i thout prior authorization from the proper authorities. They may, however, receive transfers from abroad. A simple decla- ration is required for transfers to countries outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior au thor i- zation must be obtained from the competent authorities. For many types of paymen t, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, wh ich are required to exe- cute promp t ly all du ly documented transfer orders and to dispatch cable transfers w i th in 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Insurance on all imports w i th f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged w i th local insurance companies by the importer. Freight/insurance Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Travelers —civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc., must use the fo l low ing payment instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks, bank draf ts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an un l im i ted allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, trave ler's checks, bank draf ts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion from the re levant adm in is t ra t ive au thor i t ies. Residents t rave l ing outside the CFA franc zone for tour ism, sporting events, partici- pation in expositions, organization of fa irs, par t ic ipa t ion in seminars or in te rna t ional meetings of a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a max imum of CFAF 4 m i l l ion a person a tr ip for those over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents trave l ing to countries outside the CFA franc zone for business may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a m a x im um of CFAF 10 m i l l ion a trip. C iv il servants and government employees trave l ing on o f f ic ial bus iness to countries outside the CFA franc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tour is ts, but on ly if the ir m iss ion costs are less than a da i ly allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a l im it of CFAF 4 m i l l ion. For coun tr ies outside the CFA f ranc zone, the exchange allocation is equ iva lent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a l im it of CFAF 5 m i l l ion. The exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is the equ iva lent to a three-mon th scho larsh ip p lus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds from t ransac t ions in inv i s ib les w i th France, Monaco, and Operations Ac- count coun tr ies may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due from residents of other coun tr ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in two mon ths of the due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 CHAD Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Chad. Additional special controls are maintained over borrowing and lend ing abroad; inwa rd and outward direct inves tmen t; and the issu ing, adver t is ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate on ly to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. W i th the exception of those controls over the sale or in- troduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Mon- aco, and the Operations Account countries. The issu ing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior au tho r iza t ion from the MOF. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are opera- tions in connection w i th loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian government and shares s im i lar to securities, when their issu ing, adver t is ing, or offer ing for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending requires prior MOF authorization. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f i rms concerned, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in wh ich these persons or f i rms take part; and (2) other loans when the total amount of these loans ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents CHAD 199 ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The mak ing of loans referred to under (2) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior MOF authorization. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f i rms concerned, or w i th the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in wh ich these persons or f irms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount of the loan ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the ma tu r i ty is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The same regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Yes. Inves tmen ts require the prior approval of the MOF, regardless of the method of f inanc ing. Inves tmen ts require the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts in Chad must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks must ma in ta in a specified m in imum amount of the ir assets in Chad. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 CHAD Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Imports and import payments January 1. The import monopoly on sugar was lifted. Changes During 1997 Exports and export proceeds January 1. Tariffs on imports from the UDEAC countries were abolished. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 27, 1977. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. There are two foreign exchange markets: (1) the official market, through which all current payments and authorized capital transactions, inc lud ing loan receipts, must be transacted; and (2) the informal market, through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the formal market take place. The formal foreign exchange mar- ket consists of commercial banks and exchange houses and other entities licensed by the Central Bank of Chile (CBC). Effective April 15, 1997, all current payments, and most capital transactions are allowed to be channeled through the formal exchange market. In both exchange markets, economic agents are free to negotiate rates; the CBC con- ducts transactions in the o f f ic ial exchange market w i th in margins of 10% around the reference rate. This reference rate is adjusted daily on the basis of changes in the value of a basket of currencies calculated from a set formula (0.45 for the U.S. dollar, 0.46 for the deutsche mark, and 24.6825 for the Japanese yen), the d ifferen t ial between domestic and foreign rates of inflation, and a daily appreciation equivalent to 2% a year. In Janua ry 1997, the marg in around the reference rate was increased to 12.5%, wh i le the composition of the basket was modified to 0.8 for the U.S. dollar, 0.24435 for the deutsche mark, and 5.911 for the Japanese yen. No. The CBC provides a subs idy (in the form of notes indexed to in f la t ion w i th a m in i- mum ma tur i ty of six years and an interest rate of 3%) on the following service pay- ments on some debts contracted before August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 b i l l ion): (1) paymen ts to Chilean banks or f inanc ial companies whose debt is indexed to the o f f ic ial exchange rate, and (2) payments abroad on debt obligations registered w i th the CBC. As of end-1996, only debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985, have had access to the sub- sidy, but many of the affected debtors are bankrupt and unable to claim the subsidy. Since December 31, 1996, the subsidized rate has been the official reference rate. Since Apr il 10, 1997, free access has been given for the purchase of dollars through forward contracts in the forward exchange market. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Settlements w i th Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Colombia, the Dom in ican Republic, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezuela are made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the CBC and the central banks of each of the countries concerned w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 CHILE Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The CBC is responsible for enforcing regulations aimed at collecting balance of pay- ments informa t ion. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for advising the CBC w i th respect to exports of copper and its subproducts. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized dealers, but ord inary transactions in gold between private ind iv idu a ls are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unrestricted, subject to normal export and impo rt forma l i t ies inc lud ing regis- tration w i th the CBC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Both ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons can hold foreign currency checking accounts. The average balance is subject to legal reserve requirements. Jur id ical persons must take in to account legal restrictions on inves tmen ts, given the ir commercial ac t iv i t ies (i.e., pension funds administrators). In the case of checking accounts, the commercial banks must certify the domicile reported. Jur id ical persons subject to regulations on inves tment abroad (i.e., banks and pension fund s) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Checking accounts may not be held by nonresidents because holders must be domi- ciled in the coun t ry. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments th rough the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market require an import report (informe de importation) issued by the CBC, wh ich must be obtained from, and pro- cessed through, the in termed iary of a local commercial bank. Access to foreign ex- change is available no later than 30 days after the ob l iga t ion's expiration date as documented on the import report. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 203 Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Only resident na tu ral or ju r id ical persons may engage in import activities. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports require an informe de importation issued by the CBC. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to af ter-du ty price margin l im i ts. An t idump ing and countervailing du ty laws are applied. Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of used motor vehicles are prohibited. Imports are subject to a un i fo rm 11% tar iff rate w i th a few exceptions, which include imports from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Exports and Export Proceeds A share of the receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper company) must be deposited in the account of the Copper Stabilization Fund at the CBC; w i th- drawals are permitted on ly under prescribed circumstances. Debtors of in te rnal credits recorded under Chapter VI of Title II of the Compendium of Rules on In terna t ional Exchange (CEIR) are authorized to settle interest, commissions, and/or expenses cor- responding to those operations effected directly abroad w i th export proceeds. The CBC must be informed of these settlements. No. Exports may be financed w i th advances from foreign buyers or w i th external or inter- nal credits, as agreed between the trading parties. Such advances must be channeled through the formal exchange market. Credits must be identified w i th sh ipmen ts and paid immed ia te ly after proceeds are received. The exporter must submit an export report to the CBC through a bank ing company, es tab l ish ing the exporter's iden t i ty and the terms of the operation. The commercial bank that receives the letter prior to payment of the foreign exchange w i ll demand from the exporter the sh ipp ing documents of the merchandise and the add i t ional requirements established in the LC. Yes. Inspections are done by customs agents, who perform the role of "customs ministers of faith"; subsequently, a shipment order is issued, which is subject to customs control. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most paymen ts are free of controls. Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Transfers of prof i ts require the au thor iza t ion of the CBC for access to the formal market. In the case of loans, the purchase of currency for amortization must be made in the fo rmal exchange market, subject to prior approval by the CBC, w i th in a period either before the expiration date that appears in the loan repayment program or 10 days after the exp ira t ion date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 CHILE Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Credit card use abroad In the case of capital repatriation, wh ich can only be done after complying w i th the m in imum one-year holding period, permission must be obtained from the CBC for access to the formal exchange market. There are no exchange regulations relating to payments and/or transfers on prize earnings and gambling. The CBC authorizes the commercial banks to issue credit cards. Card users must pay balances due for purchases abroad w i th their own resources. However, under the con- cept of extraordinary expenditures, each person may acquire foreign exchange in the formal market w i thout declaring the purpose. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from selected transactions (e.g., royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade) are subject to a 100% surrender requirement. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in domestic securities in three ways: (1) through acquisition by foreign investment funds (FICE). These are made up of foreign capital and are administered by an open society established in Chile. Invest- ments cannot exceed 5% of capital in any one company and 10% of the fund s' total assets. These funds cannot invest more than 40% of their portfolios in equities of the same ho ld ing period, and all FICEs as a group may not hold more than 25% of the equities of the same open society. Other requirements for FICEs are a f ive-year m in i- mum ho ld ing period, a profit tax of 10%, and some portfolio restrictions that vary w i th the du ra t ion of the holding period; (2) through a f inanc ial inve s tment (purchase of f ixed- income securities and equ i t ies). These are, however, subject to a reserve requirement of 30% for one year and a m in i- mum ho ld ing period requ irement of one year and to the general income tax law. Equ i- ties that have American Depository Receipts (ADRs) may be acquired in the coun try and converted in to secondary ADRs. ADRs issued from equities directly acquired in the Ch i lean stock market are also called secondary ADRs. These transac t ions are also subject to the 30% reserve requirement. The issuance of p r ima ry ADRs is exempt from the above res tr ic t ions, but the issuers are subject to m i n im um in te rna t ional ra t ing requ iremen ts, and there is a m i n im um amount that must be issued. Effec t ive May 8, 1997, holders of ADRs are permitted to par t ic ipa te in preferential share o f fe r ings, chang ing shares t h us acquired in to ADRs; and (3) through loans. These can also be used to finance the purchase of securities in the coun try. They are subject to a one-year reserve requirement of 30%, a 4% tax on in ter- est paymen ts, and a 1.2% s tamp du ty. Proceeds from the sale of domestic securities by nonresidents are subject to the one- year ho ld ing period requ i rement if the cap i tal i n f l ow entered as a f in an c i al inv e s tm en t. The sale of equ i t ies that are the property of foreigners due to the ADR mechan ism is possible, since secondary ADRs can be converted in to domestic stock. However, the Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 205 resources obtained through the sale mu st be repatriated. Secondary ADRs are t igh t ly restricted, both for the au thor ized period for acqu i r ing stocks domestically and for the au thor ized period for acqu ir ing foreign exchange af ter a local stock sale. All the asso- ciated foreign exchange operations must be effected th rough the fo rmal exchange market. Issuance of foreign securities by nonresidents is subject to the same proce- dures applied to domestic securities. In practice, no foreign secur i t ies are traded do- mes t ica l ly. Once the respective taxes have been paid, profits may be transferred free ly w i thout delay. Except for those app ly ing to banks and pension fund s, there are no restrictions on the acquisition of in te rna t ional f ixed- income assets and current account deposits. The associated foreign exchange must be acquired in the in fo rm al market. Pension funds are au thor ized to hold up to 12% of the ir f u n ds in foreign assets, i n c l u d i ng a va r ie ty of f ixed- income assets and company shares up to 6% of the f u n d. Inves tmen ts by l i fe insurance companies are l im i ted to 10% of the ir technical reserves and risk net wo r th. Residents may issue equ i t ies and bonds abroad, but the associated foreign exchange operations mu st be effected th rough the fo rmal exchange market. Equities may be sold according to the rules that regulate cap i tal in f lows th rough the mechan ism of ADR s. Primary ADR issues are only subject to m in imum amoun ts (US$25 m i l l ion the f i rst time, and thereaf ter US$10 m i l l ion ), and to two m i n im um in te rna t ional r isk - ra t ing requ iremen ts, for long- term debt of BBB+ for banks and BBB for other f i rm s. Such inves tmen ts must be authorized by, and registered w i th, the CBC. Currency mu st be brought in and sold in the fo rmal exchange marke t. A m i n im um ho ld ing per iod of one year is required, and currency in f low for that period is subject to a 30% reserve requ iremen t. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These operations are not perm i t ted. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Residents may acqu i re bonds or other inv e s tm ent in s t rum en ts abroad. Howeve r, the foreign exchange must be purchased in the fo rmal exchange market and transferred abroad th rough the same market af ter i n f o rm i ng the CBC. In the case of pens ion f u nd managers, insu rance companies, mu tu al fund s, and in te rna t ional inv e s tm ent f u n d s, l im i ts are app l ied w i th regard to i n s t r um e nt types and amoun t s. Bank ing f i rms or ju r id i c al persons registered w i th the Supe r in tendency of Secur i t ies and Insurance may issue bonds, subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the CBC. The long- term foreign debt ins t rumen ts of the f i rms issu ing them must have a m i n im um c lass i f i- cation of BBB+, and the amount to be issued must be at. least US$25 m i l l i o n. B ank ing f i rms or f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions mu st have a m i n im um c lass i f ica t ion of A /B (BBB+ in the case of subord ina te bonds) and may issue at least US$50 m i l l i o n. The we igh ted average term of the bonds should not be less than four years. In the case of subord i- nate bonds, the term mu st not be less than 10 years. In general, these acqu is i t ions are au thor ized for non res iden ts, but there are regu la t ions govern ing the mode of in f low. The associated cap i tal in f low l i q u i d a t i on and the sub- sequent repa tr ia t ion of proceeds mu st be effected th rough the fo rmal exchange ma rke t. Acquisition through external loans is subject to a reserve requirement of 30%, a tax on in terest of 4%, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. A cqu i s i t ion th rough FICEs is subject to a m i n im um ho ld ing period of f ive years in add i t ion to a 10% prof it tax. In the case of f inanc ial inves tmen ts, there is a 30% one-year reserve requ irement and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of one year, and they are subject to the general income tax l aw. These t ransac t ions are not au thor ized and ne i ther is the promo t ion of these or o ther f in an c i al services from abroad. To operate in the domestic f i n a n c i al marke t, the company must be registered and established, and must have b rought in cap i tal for operational purposes. The legal mechanism used is the creation of a Chilean agency of the foreign corpora t ion. The acqu i s i t ion of money market in s t rum en ts by i n d i v i d u a ls and non f in an c i al compa- nies is not restricted. However, the formal exchange market is not ava i lab le for these operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 CHILE Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are considered f inanc ial inves tmen ts and are subject to a reserve re- qu i rement of 30% for a year and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of one year. Funds that enter Chile through an FICE are subject to a m i n im um ho ld ing period of f ive years. These transactions are not permitted. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, the company must be registered and established, and must have brought in capital for operational purposes. Once th is has occurred, the sales of collective ins t rument secu- rities are subject to the same domestic rules as any other inves tmen t, w i th no restric- tions on the repa tr ia t ion of prof i ts. There are no restrictions for non f inanc ial agents, but there is no access to the formal exchange market for these purposes. Pension funds are also restricted by the type of fund (ma in ly to avoid leveraged and hedged fund s ), country risk, regulation, l iqu id i ty, experience of the f u n d, and pa r t ic ipan t 's concentration. Inves tmen ts are also subject to certain l im i ts: they should not exceed 4.5% of the pension fund, and var iab le income securities from any issuer should not exceed 2% of the fund. In practice, Ch i lean mu tual funds (open fund s) and inves tment funds (closed fund s) are not offered directly abroad. To operate abroad, such funds must meet the existing regulations of the foreign country. Domestically issued ins trumen ts can be sold to nonresidents, but funds must be repatriated. These in f lows are considered a f inanc ial inves tment and are subject to a reserve requirement of 30% annu a l ly and a one-year ho ld ing requ iremen t. FICEs that come into Chile under foreign ownership may be sold and traded in the New York or the London stock exchanges. The capital commit- ted by the FICE must remain invested in Chile for f ive years. The market is not well developed. Nonresidents cannot participate in the local market for currency derivatives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents To operate, foreign agents must have resident status. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents The CBC regulates currency and interest rate derivatives ava i lab le in foreign markets. Interest rate derivatives do not exist in the local market and are not regulated. Specu- la t ive positions w i th der iva t ives abroad can be taken by non f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions that acquire the foreign exchange in the in fo rmal market. Banks can cover themselves in currency der iva t ives up to the level of the unde r ly ing asset or l iab i l i ty position that needs to be covered. In the case of interest rate derivatives, banks are on ly allowed to cover m isma tches between assets and l iab i l i t ies. Pension funds and insurance compa- nies are only allowed to cover themselves against currency vo la t i l i ty up to a max imum of their foreign f inanc ial investments on a currency-by-currency basis. On Apr il 10, 1997, the rules on f inanc ial derivatives were s imp l if ied. The need to seek prior au tho r iza t ion from the CBC to carry out such operations abroad was abolished, as well as the requirement for every operation to be backed by a real foreign trade or invest- ment operation abroad. In addition, derivative operations invo lv ing variable income ins trumen ts were authorized, and free access was given for the purchase of dollars th rough forward contracts in the formal exchange market. Derivatives for currency and interest rates exist for operations w i th foreign agents in over-the-counter operations, w i th security dealers or brokers that are authorized by the foreign authorities, or w i th foreign banks. There is access to formal spot exchange markets for hedging purposes. Currency and interest rate options are allowed, except for banks. For residents, inc lud ing banks, other derivative contracts (interest rates, currencies, and commodity prices) are permitted up to the amount of the unde r ly ing external asset or l iab i l i ty position that needs to be covered. However, these contracts cannot be effected on the formal market, except by banks and ins t i tu t ional investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents CHILE 207 All types of non f inanc ial agents (except pension funds and insurance companies) are allowed to engage in international trade lending, but these operations must be effected through the in fo rmal exchange market. Commercial credits may be contracted w i th foreign banks and financial entities under a 30% reserve requirement charged on an average balance and subject to a 4% tax on interest. Export advances and direct supp l ier credits to importers are exempted from the reserve requirement. Associated foreign exchange transac t ions must be effected through the formal exchange market. Operations by insurance companies, pension fund s, and ins t i tu t ional investors are restricted. Others must operate through the in fo rmal market. On Apr il 15, 1997, access to the formal market was extended to all credits. Financial credits may be contracted w i th foreign banks and f inanc ial en t i t ies, subject to a one-year 30% reserve requ iremen t, a 4% tax on interest, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Under Chapter XIV of the CEIR, debtors may use the formal market to prepay credits or to ma in ta in the resources in an account abroad as a guarantee to creditors. Such funds are exempt from the 30% reserve requirement, provided the weighted average of the terms of each credit and the residual of the original credit are s im i lar. These transactions are not allowed, except for banks, wh ich have to be authorized by the CBC. Only the fo l low ing operations may be guaranteed or backed up by banks: external credits received by domestic enterprises, f inanc ial credits, the issuance of documen ts abroad, and forward contracts w i th au thor ized agents abroad. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Restrictions exist in the case of ownership in a foreign company, investments in a project, or establishment of a company abroad. Investments may be made: (1) through the fo rmal exchange market, in wh ich case the CBC grants approval but the inves t- ment is subject to a 120-day p ro f it repa tr ia t ion wh i le avo id ing double taxa t ion; or (2) through the in fo rmal exchange market, where the CBC must only be informed. There are also some limitations on the purchase of equities and foreign direct invest- ment through the formal exchange market, in which case the CBC may give authori- zation to proceed, depending upon the specific in fo rma t ion it is provided about the inves tmen t. There is a d ive rs i f ica t ion requirement that allows a max imum inves tment in subsidiaries and branches in one foreign coun try of 20% of the capital and reserves of a local bank. Investment abroad in foreign subsidiaries and branches must be de- ducted from the local capital base. Investment by commercial banks is limited to 40% of each bank 's capital and reserves, and restricted to bills and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or cen- tral banks and pr iva te enterprises w i th a m i n im um long-term in terna t ional debt risk ra t ing (and its equ iva lent for short-term debt) of BBB. Pension funds and insurance companies are subject to a m i n im um long-term interna- t ional debt risk ra t ing of BBB. In April 1997, the fo l low ing transactions were pe rm i t- ted in the formal market: inves tmen ts abroad, inc lud ing acqu is i t ion of real or f inanc ial assets, and pa r t ic ipa t ion in companies and in contracts for the exploration and exploi- tation of domestic resources. There is, however, a reporting obligation to the CBC. Repa tr ia t ion of inves tmen ts, inc lud ing prof i ts, were exempted from the 30% reserve requ iremen t. Capital contributions to new establishments and shares in existing ones are subject to a one-year m i n im um ho ld ing period and a m i n im um amount of US$1 m i l l ion. Projects ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 CHILE Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents of significant size may be undertaken; there is a m in imum holding period of one year, and the investor enjoys favorable taxation treatment w i th regard to the choice between the general income tax law or the guaranteed payment profit tax of 42%. There is also guaranteed access to the formal exchange market for repatriation. Investments must be held in Chile for at least one year to qua l i fy for repatriation. Af ter that period, it must be demonstrated that the assets were sold and applicable taxes paid. Purchases are permitted through the informal market, but insurance companies may invest only 3% of the ir reserves and risk net worth. Purchases are treated as a f inanc ial inves tment and are subject to a m i n im um invest- ment requirement of US$100,000, a reserve requirement of 30%, and a m i n im um ho ld ing period of one year. The inves tment must have been held for one year in Chile, and it must be demon- strated that the asset was sold and app l icab le taxes paid. Chilean regulations establish that both ju r id ical and na tu ral persons may lend abroad. However, the loans must be made w i th currency acquired in the formal exchange mar- ket and also remitted through it. The CBC must be informed about such operations. These loans must be authorized by, and registered w i th, the CBC. The disbursement of the currency and its subsequent l iqu ida t ion must be effected in the formal exchange market. Foreign loans are subject to a 30% reserve requirement for a one-year period. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies There are no exchange regulations relating to g i f ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies. Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls; however, transfers may be made only through the in fo rmal market. These operations are permitted but are subject to the same restrictions applicable to loans. Banks are permitted to obtain foreign trade credits, subject to a reserve requ i rement of 30% against the average balance. They may also obtain f inanc ial credits w i th a reserve requirement of 30% for a year. Nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are not allowed to m a in t a in accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign t ime deposits w i th in the marg in for f inanc ial inve s tment abroad. External current accounts are not restricted. Banks may purchase debt ins trumen ts and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Time de- posits are considered part of the margin for f inanc ial investments. Banks sa t isfy ing a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10% may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Deposits, loans, and other assets of Chilean banks w i th foreign banks of Chilean ownership cannot exceed 40% of the capital and reserves of the for- eign bank. On April 10, 1997, banks were given authorization to extend loans to na tu- ral or jur id ical persons resident abroad in order to f inance foreign trade operations between th ird countries. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may grant loans or acquire securities denominated or expressed in fore ign ex- change provided they remain w i th in the open position l im i t s. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases are subject to open pos i t ion l im i t s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 209 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The requirement for foreign currency deposits, for both t ime and current account de- posits, is 30%. The requirement for domestic currency time deposits is 9%. Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors By law, there are ceilings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate. Foreign financial investments by commercial banks are limited to 70% of each bank's effective capital and are restricted to bills and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or central banks and private enterprises. The total exposure to any one country may not exceed 40% of each bank's effective capital. The general m in imum long-term international debt risk rating (and its equivalent for short-term debt) for the financial instruments is BBB-, and up to 20% may be invested in BB- instruments. The foreign exchange needed to invest abroad must be obtained in the formal ex- change market. Investments require the prior authorization of the CBC. Nonresidents may invest in banks, but such investments are subject to a one-year holding period and a 30% reserve requirement. The l im it is 20% of capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot instruments, foreign investment and assets and liabilities issued abroad or denomi- nated in foreign exchange. Additionally, there is a foreign f inanc ial investment ceiling of 40% of the capital and reserves of each bank, a max imum investment in subsidiar- ies and branches abroad of 20% of the capital and reserves of domestic banks, and a requirement that the balance of all acquisitions and sales of foreign exchange for a bank be positive. Pension funds and insurance companies may hold only foreign instruments of a mini- mum international long-term risk rating of BBB. These investors may also acquire foreign instruments guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury, such as Brady Bonds. Acquisi- tion of equities and variable-income assets by pension funds is restricted to instru- ments in some international markets. Specifically, there are rules on the transparency, regulation, and informa t ion of the stock exchange where these ins t rumen ts can be acquired. However, for insurance companies, the possible stock exchange options are wider; insurance companies may invest in markets where there is a daily average of at least US$10 m i l l ion of equity transactions. Mu tual funds may use the formal exchange market to make investments abroad. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad n.a. L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad On Ap r il 17, 1997, pension funds were permitted to invest up to 12% of their re- sources abroad from the previous 9%. Life insurance companies may invest their technical reserves and their risk net worth with global limits of 10% in financial in- vestments and 3% in real estate. The l im i ts for general insurance companies d i f fer from those of the l i fe insurance companies only in the case of f inanc ial investment abroad. The l im it for the former is 15% in the case of inves tment abroad. Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. No. Exchange arrangement January 24. The exchange band was widened to 12.5% on each side of the reference rate. The composition of the currency basket was changed w i th an increase in the Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 CHILE participation of the U.S. dollar to 80% and a reduction of the share of the deutsche mark and yen to 15% and 5%, respectively. April JO. Free access was given for the purchase of dollars through forward contracts in the formal exchange market. April 15. All current external payments, and most capital transactions, were allowed to be channeled through the formal exchange market. April 15. The rules governing investment abroad were amended. The fo l low ing were added as authorized investment operations: acquisition of real and f inanc ial assets, deposit taking, gran t ing of loans, and participation abroad in contracts for the explo- ration and exploitation of natural resources. However, inves tmen ts w i th currency not obtained in the formal exchange market are limited to the acquisition of f inanc ial and real assets. The repatriation of capital and profits is not required, but when th is occurs, it must be done through the formal exchange market. The repatriation of currency w i ll be subject to the one-year 30% reserve requirement, unless an exception is made by the CBC. May 8. Holders of ADRs were permitted to participate in preferential share offerings, changing shares thus acquired into secondary ADRs. April 10. The rules on financial derivatives were simplified. The need to seek prior authorization from the CBC to carry out such operations abroad was abolished, as well as the requirement for every operation to be backed by a real foreign trade or invest- ment operation abroad. In addition, derivative operations invo lv ing variable income ins trumen ts were authorized. October 13. The m in imum amount for foreign direct investment to be exempted from the 30% nonrenumerated reserve requirement was raised to US$1 million. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on personal capital movements April 10. The quan t i ta t ive l im it of US$15,000 a month was abolished. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions April 10. Banks were given authorization to extend loans to na tural or ju r id ical per- sons resident abroad in order to finance foreign trade operations between third countries. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors April 17. The l im it on holdings of foreign ins t rumen ts by pension funds was raised to 12% from 9% of their assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's Repub l ic of China is the Chinese renm inbi (RMB). The currency un it is the yuan (100 fen = Yl and 10 fen = 1 jiao). Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the renm inbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The People's Bank of Ch ina (PBC) announces a reference rate for the ren- m inbi against the U.S. do l lar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the Japanese yen based on the weighted average price of foreign exchange transactions during the previous day's trading. Daily movement of the exchange rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar is limited to 0.3% on either side of the reference rate as announced by the PBC. The buy ing and selling rates of the renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar and the Japa- nese yen may not deviate more than 1% on either side of the reference rate; in the case of other currencies, the deviations should not exceed 0.5% on either side of their re- spective reference rates. The selling price for cash transactions is the same as the buy ing price for cash transactions for all quoted currencies. The buying price for cash should not exceed 2.5% of its spot rate. The Shanghai-based Ch ina Foreign Exchange Trading System (CFETS) is a na t iona l ly integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading. At present, it is electronically linked w i th 37 foreign exchange trading centers located in major cities. All foreign exchange transactions are conducted through the system. Financial ins t i tu- tions invo lved in foreign exchange transactions must become members of the CFETS. No. No. On Apr il 1, 1997, 12 branches of the PBC began to operate forward purchase and sale of renm inbi against unde r ly ing transactions on a trial basis. The longest ma tu r i ty is four mon ths. Since Janua ry 1998, the forward purchase and sale of renm inbi has been extended across the PBC. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The currencies used in transac t ions are determined by the respective contracts. Ch ina has terminated arrangements w i th Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Russia, and V ie tnam. Cash settlements w i th these countries have been adopted. The PBC has au tho r i ty over exchange control and the State Adm in i s t ra t ion of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) is responsible for imp lemen t ing regulations. 2 1] ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Trading of gold and silver is restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other ap- proved users. Private persons may hold gold but not trade it. Nonresidents can buy gold, gold products, silver, and silver products but must present the invoice to export them. Un l im i ted amounts may be imported but must be declared. Exportation requires a permit. The exportation of domestic currency is limited to RMB 6,000. Travelers on official business can carry as much foreign currency as needed according to rules set by the M in is try of Finance (MOF). Residents going abroad can carry for- eign currency in cash up to $2,000, or its equivalent. For amounts exceeding $2,000, approval of the SAFE is required. Banks w i ll issue a "permit to carry foreign currency abroad" based on SAFE approval, to be carried by residents going abroad w i th cash exceeding $2,000. n.a. The import of foreign currency must be declared to customs. Resident Accounts As of October 15, 1997, domestic establishments may ma in ta in foreign exchange ac- counts w i th approved balances for current account purposes based on certain criteria on export/import vo lume and amount of capital set by the SAFE. Foreign-funded en- terprises (FFEs) may open (1) foreign exchange settlement accounts for receipts under the current or capital account w i th a max imum amount stipulated by the SAFE for each enterprise; and (2) foreign exchange special accounts for receipts under the capital account and paymen ts under the current account. Foreign currency savings accounts may be opened w i th au thor ized banks. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Domestic establishments in need of foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into foreign currency at authorized banks by presenting va l id proof and commercial b i l ls when external paymen ts are made. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Deposit acounts are allowed; settlement accounts are not perm i t ted. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 213 Na tu ral persons \f, ^3 Persons s tay ing in Ch ina for a short time may open foreign currency savings accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers may make advance payment of loans not exceeding $100,000 at the banks by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Prior SAFE approval is required for the payment of loans exceeding 15% of the contract amount and the equivalent of $100,000. Importers must provide valid proof and commercial bills, mainly import permits, automatic registration permits, proof of import, customs declarations, verification forms for foreign exchange payments, import contracts, and the like to obtain foreign exchange or pay directly from their foreign exchange accounts. Presh ipment inspection All imports require inspection prior to their release by customs at the port of en t ry, Letters of credit n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l ist Nega t ive list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs To engage in foreign trade, all enterprises other than registered foreign trade compa- nies (FTCs) must obtain approval from the local foreign trade bureau, in accordance w i th the M in is try of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) authoriza- tion, as well as a license from the local bureau for indus try and commerce. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and p lan ts are prohibited. In add i t ion, the impor ta t ion of weapons, ammun i t ion and ex- plosives, radio receivers and transmitters, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cu l tu ra l, and moral interests is prohibited. Yes. Import tar iff rates fa ll in to two categories: general and preferential. Preferential rates are granted to imports from countries w i th wh ich Ch ina has a trade treaty or agree- ment. Other imports are subject to the general rate of du ty. Ch ina has a number of special economic zones where imports of inputs and capital goods are exempt from tariffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly FTCs conduct trade in specified products, inc lud ing wheat, chemical fer t i l izers, crude oil and oil products, rubber, steel, timber, p lywood, polyester fibers, tobacco and its products, cotton, and wool. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Through October 14, 1997, domestic es tab l ishmen ts were required to sell the ir export earnings to designated banks. From October 15, 1997, qua l i fy ing domestic enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA were allowed to retain 15% of the value of the ir foreign trade (exports p lus impor ts) of the previous year. Qua l i fy ing enterprises are foreign trade enterprises w i th a trade volume greater that $30 m i l l ion and w i th registered capital greater than Y 10 m i l l i o n, and enterprises with foreign trade rights whose vo lume of trade exceeds $10 m i l l ion and registered capital exceeds Y 30 m i l l ion. FFEs may retain their export earnings provided those earnings do not exceed the max imum amount allowed for a foreign exchange surrender account as prescribed by the SAFE; otherwise, the balance, if any, mu st be sold to authorized banks or sold through foreign exchange ad ju s tment centers. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i th quotas Quotas for 24 products are allocated th rough a bidding system under wh ich successful bidders are required to guarantee max imum export va lue by offering higher bench- mark export prices. Export taxes Export duties are levied on 47 products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests, except for the remittances of gambling and prize earnings and the use of credit cards abroad. Commissions Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Nontrade payments by FFEs and pub l ic enterprises are subject to the same provisions. Resident i n d i v i d u a ls are subject to d i f fe rent regu la t ions. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits (i.e., as a per- centage of f.o.b. pricing: in the case of a hidden commission, the rebate should not exceed 2% of total contract amount; and in the case of a stated commission, the rebate should not exceed 5% or, if exceeding those percentages, should be below $10,000). Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commer- cial b i l ls. The foreign exchange requirements of companies w i th in the budget are provided ac- cording to the prescribed l im i ts. There are no restrictions on paymen ts for travel of FFE staff. "Interim Regulations on Nontrade and Nonbusiness Foreign Exchange U t i l iza t ion ," published by the MOF, imposes a l im it on the amount of foreign exchange to be used by persons traveling abroad on off ic ial business. Residents t rave l ing to Hong Kong SAR and Macao for personal reasons may purchase up to $1,000 worth of foreign currencies; ind iv idu a ls trave l ing to other countries or regions ( inc lud ing Taiwan Province of China) may purchase up to $2,000 worth of foreign currencies. Approval of the SAFE is required for amoun ts exceeding those l im i ts. Yes. Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to $1,000 for payments of medicines and medical equipment abroad; for larger amounts, they must subm it appropriate docu- mentation for the SAFE'S verification. Persons pay ing for the ir own studies abroad may be allowed a one-time purchase of foreign exchange of up to $2,000. Larger amoun ts require the approval of the SAFE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 215 Pensions Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /p r ize earn ings Credit card use abroad Pensions, in c lud ing severance and separation paymen ts, may be converted in to foreign currency. n .a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign grants and f in an c i al aid received by domestic es tab l ishmen ts, and foreign exchange earmarked for external paymen ts as prescribed by aid contracts may be ma in ta ined w i th the approval of the SAFE. Foreign embassies and consulates, repre- sentative offices of in terna t ional organizations and aff i l ia tes of foreign ju r id ical per- sons, resident persons, and foreign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange. FFEs may retain foreign exchange earn ings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the max imum l im it allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to authorized banks or through foreign exchange swap centers. Capital Transactions Nonres iden ts may on ly purchase B shares. The face va lue of B shares is denom ina ted in renm inb i. These shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and can on ly be bought by foreign inves tors. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts These transac t ions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Residents, except f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrow ing, and au thor ized indu s t r i al and trade enterprises or groups, are not perm i t ted to purchase securities abroad. A qu a l i f i c a t ions review by the SAFE is requ ired in order for f i n a n- cial in s t i tu t ions to purchase securities abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval by the PBC, the SAFE, or the Securities Superv isory Board (SSB) is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonres iden ts These transac t ions are not perm i t ted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These t ran sac t ions are not pe rm i t ted. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations app ly as for shares of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Prior approval by the PBC, the SAFE, or the SSB is required. The issu ing of bonds abroad must be integrated in to the state's plan for the use of foreign capital. Bonds can on ly be issued by f in an c i al ins t i tu t ions or authorized enterprises approved by the PBC and the SAFE. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts are not allowed to purchase money market in s t rumen t s. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to sell or issue money market ins trumen ts. Purchase abroad by residents Residents, except for f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions perm i t ted to engage in foreign borrow ing and authorized indus tr ial and trade enterprises or groups, are not allowed to purchase ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad of securities, other than stocks, requires PBC and SAFE approval. money market instruments. Financial institutions must undergo a review of qualifica- tions by the SAFE before purchasing foreign money market instruments. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no regulations, and if these ins trumen ts are traded, they must be approved by the Securities Policy Commission. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for purchase of money market ins trumen ts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for sale or issue of money market ins t rumen ts. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Operations in such instruments by financial institutions are subject to prior review of qualifications and to limits on open foreign exchange positions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Industrial and commercial enterprises may not provide lending to nonresidents. Pro- vision of loans to nonresidents by financial ins t i tu t ions is subject to review of qua l i f i- cations by the SAFE and to a foreign exchange asset-liability ratio requirement. Only financial institutions permitted by the SAFE to engage in external borrowing and authorized indus tr ial and commercial enterprises or groups can engage in external borrowing of commercial credit. For credit over a one-year maturity, the loan must be part of the state plan for u t i l iz ing foreign capital and must be approved by the SAFE. Short-term commercial credit (w i th a maturity of one year or less) is subject to foreign exchange balance requirements. Financial ins t i tu t ions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing are free to conduct short-term foreign borrowing w i th in the target balance w i thout ob ta in ing approval, but must register the borrowing w i th the SAFE. Since January 1, 1998, forward letters of credit w i th a ma tur i ty exceeding 90 days but less than 365 days have been included in management business loans wh i le those ex- ceeding one year have been included in medium- and long-term international business loans. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents w i thout obtaining approval but must report the borrowing to the SAFE. Financial credits S^me regulations apply as for commercial credits. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment The regulation on External Guarantees Provided by Domestic Entities (EGPDE) (1996) allows the provision of guarantees by authorized f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and nonfinancial legal entities that have foreign exchange receipts. Without the approval of the State Council, government agencies or ins t i tu t ions cannot provide guarantees. On January 1, 1998, the Implementation By laws of the EGPDE were issued. Foreign exchange is provided for the inves tment after (1) a SAFE review of sources of foreign exchange assets and an assessment of the inves tment risk invo lved, (2) ap- proval by MOFTEC, and (3) registration w i th the SAFE. Nonresidents are free to invest in Ch ina as long as they meet requirements under Sino- foreign jo in t-ven ture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 217 MOFTEC. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as exchange control is concerned. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct invest- ment in some industries is prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for direct inves tmen t. Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations app ly as for direct inve s tmen t, Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Borrow ing abroad Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Prior approval by the SAFE is required for domestic en t i t ies opening foreign exchange accounts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed, subject to review of qua l if ica t ions by the SAFE and to asset- liability ratio requirements. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Lending is ma in ly subject to review of qua l i f ica t ions by the SAFE and to asset- l i ab i l i ty ra t io requ iremen ts. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements China does not issue securities denominated in foreign currency. There are d i f fe rent reserve requ iremen ts for deposits in renm inbi and in foreign cur- rency, and also between the latter in domestic banks and in FFEs (i.e., in FFEs, 13% for deposits in renm inb i, 5% for any foreign currency deposit in domestic banks, and 3% for deposits in foreign currency for over three mon ths and 5% for less than three months). Banks' foreign exchange l iqu id assets (one year or less) should not be less than 60% of l iqu id l iab i l i t ies (one year or less) and 30% of total foreign exchange assets. Total deposits w i th three-mon th ma tu r i t ies, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, funds used for pu rchas ing transferab le foreign-currency-denominated securities, de- posits w i th the central bank, and cash ho ld ings should not be less than 15% of banks' total foreign exchange assets. Nonbank foreign exchange l iqu id assets (one year or less) should not be less than 60% of l iqu id l iab i l i t ies (one year or less) and 25% of total assets. Total deposits w i th three-month ma tur i t ies, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, f u n ds used for pu rchas ing transferab le foreign-currency-denominated securities, deposits w i th the cen tral bank, and cash ho ld ings should not be less than 10% of nonbank total foreign exchange assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Credit controls Inves tment regulations Total loans, inve s tment guarantees (calculated as 50% of the balance guaranteed), and other foreign exchange credits provided to a legal en t i ty by a bank or nonbank f in an- cial i n s t i t u t i on should not exceed 30% of the foreign exchange capital owned by the bank or nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion. Bank equ i ty inves tment should not exceed the difference between bank capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions' total equ i ty inves tment (excluding trust account) should not exceed the difference between the ir capital and mandatory pa id- in capital. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts For f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions trad ing foreign exchange on the ir own beha l f, the da i ly total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the foreign exchange wo rk ing cap i ta l. As au thor ized by the highest level of managemen t, f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions t rad ing foreign exchange on the ir own beha lf may retain a sma ll amount of overn ight open pos i t ion, but th is should not exceed 1 % of the foreign ex- change wo rk ing cap i ta l. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 1997 April L Twelve branches of the PBC began to operate forward purchases and sales of renm inbi against unde r ly ing transactions on a trial basis. October 15, Domestic es tab l ishmen ts were allowed to ma in ta in foreign exchange ac- counts, based on certain criteria of export/import vo lume and amount of cap i tal set by the SAFE, w i th approved balances for current account. October 15. Qua l i fy ing domestic enterprises are now allowed to retain 15% of the va lue of their foreign trade (exports p lus imports) of the previous year. Qua l i fy ing enterprises are foreign trade enterprises w i th trade volume greater than $30 m i l l ion and w i th registered capital greater than Y 10 m i l l ion, and enterprises w i th foreign trade rights whose vo lume of trade exceeds $10 m i l l ion and registered capital exceeds Y 30 m i l l ion. September 10. The Regulations for Private Use of Foreign Exchange by Domestic Residents were revised. Residents t rave l ing to Hong Kong SAR and Macao for per- sonal reasons may now purchase up to $1,000, wh i le those t rave l ing to other countries or regions may carry $2,000. For the purchase of foreign exchange for uses not speci- fied in the regulations and supplied by banks, the l im it was raised to $500. Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January L Regulations for Issu ing Bonds Denominated in Foreign Currency by Do- mestic Ins t i tu t ions were issued. Controls on credit operations January 1. Forward letters of credit w i th a maturity exceeding 90 days but less than 365 days have been included in management business loans wh i le those exceeding one year have been included in medium- and long-term in terna t ional business loans. January 1. The Implementation By laws of Regu la t ions for Ex ternal Guarantees by Domestic Ins t i tu t ions were issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA —HONG KONG SAR (Position as of December 31, 1997) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong Special Adm in is t ra t ive Region (Hong Kong SAR) is the Hong Kong do l lar. Commemora t ive gold coins of HK$ 1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by col- lectors and seldom circulated. The au tho r i t ies do not ma in ta in marg ins in exchange transactions. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under th is linked exchange rate arrangement, the three no te- issu ing banks must de l iver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars equ iva lent to the amount of local currency issued at the linked exchange rate as back- ing for the ir Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in tu rn, issues to each no te- issu ing bank non-interest-bearing certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Conversely, the note-issuing banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by de l iver ing certificates of indebtedness and w i thd raw ing local banknotes from circu- lation at the same linked exchange rate. The amount of indebtedness of the Exchange Fund represented by the certificates of indebtedness w i ll be reduced accordingly. Other banks may acquire local currency notes from the note-issuing banks against Hong Kong dollar deposits for Hong Kong dollar value. The exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates for all trans- actions except those that are conducted for note-issuing purposes between the Ex- change Fund and the note-issuing banks. No. No. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector in i t ia t ive s, and the gov- ernment has no o f f ic ial role. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. No. No. UN sanctions are imp lemen ted by the Hong Kong SAR government in accordance w i th the relevant regu la t ions made under the UN Sanctions Ordinance by the Chief Executive on the instructions of the M in is try of Foreign A f fa i rs of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. Payment arrears No. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or No. bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade. Import licenses are required for reasons of health, safety, env ironmen tal protection, security, or for the fu l f i l lment of Hong Kong SAR 's in terna t ional trade obligations. All imports are free of du ty, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, me thyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 221 Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade. Export licenses are required for reasons of health, safety, environmental protection, security, or for the fu l f i l lment of Hong Kong SAR 's international trade obligations. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments No. There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, d is tr ibu t ions from trus ts, and d iv idends is not taxed in Hong Kong SAR; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong SAR is subject to a prof i ts tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by ind iv idua ls is not subject to the salaries tax. Capital Transactions No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license or an au thor iza t ion is required for companies, whe ther incorporated in Hong Kong SAR or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insur- ance, securities, and futures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register w i th the Companies Registry w i th in one month of establishing a busi- ness in Hong Kong SAR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements No. No. No. No. No. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The limits and restrictions stated below are set by the Hong Kong Monetary Au thor i ty (HKMA) for pruden t ial reasons on ly. D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks No d is t inc t ion is made between resident and nonresident deposit accounts. No authorized ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Hong Kong SAR or its holding company incorporated in Hong Kong SAR shall establish or acquire by whatever means w i thout the approval of the HKMA an overseas banking corporation that becomes the subsidi- ary of the in s t i tu t ion or its ho ld ing company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Open foreign exchange position l im i ts All authorized in s t i tu t ions are required to report to the HKMA their foreign currency positions ( inc lud ing options) mon th ly. Locally incorporated ins t i tu t ions are required to report their consolidated foreign currency positions. The aggregate net open posi- tion (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of ind iv idual currencies) shou ld norma l ly not exceed 5% of the capital base of the in s t i tu t ion, and the net open position in any ind iv idual currency should not exceed 10% of the capital base. For subsidiaries of foreign banks where the parent bank consolidates the foreign exchange risk on a global basis and for wh ich there is adequate home superv is ion, the HKMA may accept h igher l im i ts. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA rev iews and mon i tors the ir in ternal l im i t s, wh i ch are u sua l ly set by the ir head offices and home superv isory authorities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Colombia is the Colombian peso. Var ious commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Banco de la Repub l ica (BR) conducts foreign exchange transactions w i th the M in is try of Finance (MOF) and authorized f inanc ial intermediaries. The BR an- nounces the upper and lower l im i ts of a 14 percentage point band 10 days in advance for ind ica t ive purposes. On Janua ry 1, 1997, the annual rate of depreciation of the m idpo int of the exchange rate band against the dollar was increased from 13.6% to 15%, wh i le preserving the band w id th. The BR quotes buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies da i ly on the basis of the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. All foreign exchange operations take place at a market-determined exchange rate. The Superintendency of Banks calculates a representative market ex- change rate based on market rates (i.e., the weighted average of buy ing and se l l ing effected by foreign exchange market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions and forward transactions). The government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized intermediaries. The BR stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) to pub l ic enter- prises in the electric sector and to the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers. These warrants, expressed in dollars, have a ma tu r i ty of 12 mon ths and, w i th in the ir period of va l id i ty, may be sold to the BR for pesos at the reference market buy ing rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the exter- nal loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on pr imary certificates of de- posit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued, less one percentage point if held by pub l ic sector recipients of external loans. Warran ts held longer than 12 months may be resold to the BR at the reference market rate on the last day of the twe l f th mon th. On January 1, 1998, the annual rate of depreciation of the midpoint of the exchange rate band against the dol- lar was lowered to 13% from 15%, wh i le preserving the band w id th. Surtaxes inc lude 7% on remittances of earnings on existing non-oil foreign inves t- ments, 12% on remittances of earnings on existing foreign inves tmen ts in the oil sec- tor, and 12% on rem i t tances of earnings from foreign investments made after 1993. Also, a 6% w i thho ld ing tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers is applied. Tax credit cer t if ica tes for non t rad i t ional exports (CERTs) are granted at d i f fe rent per- centage rates. Res iden ts are permitted to buy forward cover aga inst exchange rate risks w i th respect to foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the BR on interna- t ional markets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and op t ions in dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Paymen ts and receipts are no rma l ly effected in do l lars, but res iden ts and f i n a n c i al in termed iar ies are allowed to carry out operations in any currency. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 COLOMBIA Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Settlements w i th Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Colombia ma in ta ins reciprocal credit agreements w i th Ch ina, Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Customs and Taxes Directorate w i th in the MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsible for app ly ing penalties for any violation of the trade regulations. The Superintendency of Trade and Indus try and the Superintendency of Banks are also responsible for the enforcement of exchange regu- lations. The authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial banks, f inan- cial corporations, the Financiera Energetica Nacional, the Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), and sav ings and loans corporations. Exchange houses are authorized to carry out a range of foreign exchange activities. The BR keeps an accounting record both of foreign inves tment in Colombia and of debts abroad and tracks the movement of foreign capital, as well as the transfer of prof i ts, dividends, and commissions. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The BR sells gold domestically for indus t r ial use at a price equ iva lent to the average quotation in the London gold market dur ing the previous day; th is price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes 'No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Such accounts are restricted to travel agencies, in terna t ional transport companies in bond stores, and companies in free areas. n.a. Residents may ma in ta in foreign accounts registered at the BR (compensation ac- counts) that may be used to pay for imports, to invest abroad in f inanc ial assets, or to carry out any other foreign exchange operations. Proceeds from services (except inter- est and profits) and transfers may be used to ma in ta in foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the BR. On October 3, 1997, special foreign accounts (special compensation accounts) were authorized for transactions among residents. Approval required n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Credit i n s t i t u t i o ns are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency f rom nonresident i n d i v i d u a ls or f i rm s; these deposits are freely ava i lab le to the ho ld- ers, but banks mu st report transac t ions th rough these accounts to the BR. Prior ap- proval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 225 Domestic currency accounts Deposits in these accounts need not be registered at the BR; they may be used only for trade-related transactions. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addi- tion, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. However, foreign enter- prises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from f inanc ial intermediaries. Import paymen ts must be made w i th in six mon ths of the due date of the bill of lading. All imports must be registered at the Colombian Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). n.a. Yes. Yes. Most imports are free and require registration only w i th INCOMEX if the f.o.b. va lue exceeds US$500. There is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to LAIA member countries, and special lists applicable only to LAIA member countries and the Andean Pact countries. Imports of medicines, chemical products, and weapons and munitions are subject to licensing requirements. Reimbursable imports are those invo lv ing purchases of off ic ial foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, including imports of machinery and equipment financed by international credit ins t i tu t ions. Nonreimbursable imports consist ma in ly of aid im- ports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except those for agricultural and livestock products and for capital goods, wh ich are valid for three months and for twe lve months, respectively. Import licenses may be extended only once. Positive list Nega t ive list n .a. n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs W i th certain exceptions, impor ts are subject to the CET of the Andean Pact. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized f inanc ial in terme- diaries w i t h in six months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the BR. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and f i rms in free-trade areas are not required to surrender the ir foreign exchange. On surrendering export proceeds in the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 COLOMBIA (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates at any of three rates —2.5%, 4%, and 5% of domestic value added —depending on the product and the country of destination. These certificates, wh ich are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs du t ies, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) a m i n im um surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters pay a coffee con t r ibu t ion on the basis of in te rna t ional market prices; (3) the Na t ional Coffee Committee (composed of the M in is ters of Finance and Ag r icu l tu re and the Manag ing Director of the Federation) may establish a phys ical coffee con t ingent on the basis of in te rna t ional coffee prices; and (4) the Na t ional Coffee Committee establishes a do- mestic price for export-type coffee expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 k i lograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the pub l ic sector may be surrendered to f inan- cial in termed iar ies or to the BR. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Export licenses No. n.a. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Interest paymen ts Quantitative limits P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Contracts invo lv ing roya l t ies, commissions, trademarks, or patents should be regis- tered w i th the INCOMEX for statistical purposes on ly. The l im it on contractual interest rates for pub l ic debt is determined by the BR, wh ich sets the m ax imum applicable rate. Capital must be registered w i th the BR before prof i ts can be repatriated. Annual transfers of prof i ts abroad and repatriation of capital are not restricted, but they may be temporarily restricted if in te rna t ional reserve ho ld ings of the BR fa ll below the equ iva lent of three mon ths of imports. n.a. There is a deposit of 25% on the value of the repayment of loans. n.a. n.a. n .a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Capital Transactions 227 Controls on capital and money market instruments Purchases of these ins trumen ts, whe ther locally by nonresidents or abroad by resi- dents, must be registered w i th the BR. On January 30, 1998, the nonremunerated de- posit requirement for external f inanc ing (Resolution 1) was reduced to 25% of the loan, and the deposit period was shortened to 12 months from 18 months. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a Colombian f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion re- quires the prior approval of the Superintendency of Banks. Foreign inves tmen ts are permitted in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the f inanc ial sector. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities n.a. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an inves tment fund in order to purchase securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Credits must be registered with the BR. Since May 19, 1997, foreign loans (all ma- turities) are subject to nonremunerated deposit requirements of 30% of the loan in pesos to be held for 18 mon ths. Export credits over US$5,000 that are longer than 4 months are subject to a 15% deposit in dollars for 12 months. Exempted from the deposit requirements are (1) import credits for capital goods if less than US$5,000; and (2) short-term loans granted by the BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters for up to 12 months for the max imum amount of US$550 million; credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian inves tmen ts abroad; and green coffee, coal, and oil preship- ment f inanc ing. Prepayment of the loan is permitted under the au tho r iza t ion of the BR. In the case of prepayment of export credits, exporters must prove that over 85% of the declared value has been exported. All public f inanc ing (borrowing and bond issues) in foreign currencies, inc lud ing that by the central and local government, is also subject to nonremunera ted deposit. There is a l im it on contractual interest rates of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 COLOMBIA 3% over LIBOR or 0.5 percentage points over the U.S. prime rate for the public sec- tor. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the MOF. For loans to the government, or guaranteed by the gov- ernment, the fo l low ing are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and from the BR, prior consultation w i th the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval from the Presi- dent of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that author- izes the initiation of negotiations. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. n.a. Outward direct investment Investments should be registered w i th the BR. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Up to 100% ownersh ip in any sector of the economy —except in defense, waste dis- posal, and real estate —is allowed. Special regimes remain in effect in the f inanc ia l, petroleum, and m in ing sectors. Repatriation of proceeds must be registered with the BR. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases should be registered w i th the BR. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) D ifferen t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Banks must in fo rm the BR. Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are not subject to reserve requirements. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of net wor th. There are no regulations governing the net foreign ex- change positions of exchange houses; they may sell the ir excess foreign ho ld ings to authorized f inanc ial intermediaries because they do not have access to the BR. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Changes During 1997 229 Exchange arrangement January 1. The annual rate of depreciation of the m idpo int of the exchange rate band against the dollar was increased to 15% from 13.6%. Arrangements for payments and receipts October 3. Residents were permitted to effect transactions in dollars for services ren- dered in the country. Resident accounts Capital transactions October 3. Special foreign accounts (special compensation accounts) were authorized for transactions among residents. Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 13. Under the "economic emergency," a tax was imposed on all foreign loans (rates between zero and 8% of the loan), wh ich was revoked in March. March 12. The nonremunerated deposit requirement was reintroduced at 50% of the loan up to 60 months. May 19. The terms of the nonremunerated deposit were revised to cover all loans re- gardless of the ma tur i ty at (1) 15% in dollars for export f inanc ing over four mon ths; and (2) 30% in pesos for all other external f inanc ing for eighteen months. Prepayment of debts was permitted, subject to au thor iza t ion of the BR. Prepayment of loans was also allowed w i th the authorization of the BR. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement January 1. The annual rate of depreciation of the m idpo int of the exchange rate against the dollar was lowered to 13% from 15%, wh i le preserving the band w id th. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 30. The nonremunerated deposit requirement for external f inanc ing (Resolution 1) was reduced to 25% of the loan, and the deposit period was shortened to 12 months from 18 months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Comoros is the Comorian f ranc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Comorian franc is pegged to the French f ranc at CF 1 per F 0.0133. Exchange rates for currencies are o f f ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros (CBC) and is provided to traders by the commercial bank (the on ly author- ized dealer) for up to three mon ths. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Comoros is a member of COMES A. Yes. The M in is ter of Finance and Trade has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the CBC and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The M in is t ry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct inves tmen t, and all ou tward inves tmen t. W i th the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the coun t ry 's exchange con- trol measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Bu rk ina Faso, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Repub l ic of Congo, Cote d' lvo ire, Equatorial Gu inea, Gabon, Guinea Bissau, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private n.a. Yes. n.a. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 231 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewe lry w i th in the l im it of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Up to CF 500,000 may be exported. Residents t rave l ing to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out the equ iva lent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 250,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to CBC approval, wh ich is granted if supporting documentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment issued abroad in their name w i thout providing documentary jus t i f ica t ion. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coins. Foreign currency Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Opening of these accounts is permitted but is not practiced. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident criteria must be met for eligibility. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 COMOROS Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs All import transactions must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Yes. Yes. n.a. The importation of most goods, except those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to ind iv idual licensing, which is for statistical purposes only. The importation of certain goods is prohibited from all countries for health or security reasons. There are import du ty rates of 20%, 30%, and 40% for general merchandise; 150% for tobacco; 180% for spirits; and an administrative fee of 3% for imports exempt from du ty. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract. Proceeds must be sold immed ia te ly after repatriation to the authorized bank. No. Documentation requirements With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Yes. All export transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank if the va lue is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection This is required in line w i th customs procedures. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Licenses are issued mainly for statistical purposes. Yes. There are export taxes, but they do not apply to all exports. Certain taxes apply to specific products, as required by some professional organizations. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports, interest, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments are not restricted. Most other paymen ts are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commissions Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits COMOROS 233 Yes. Yes. Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investments is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these l im i ts is subject to the prior approval of the CBC, wh ich is granted if supporting documentation is provided. n.a. The same l im i ts apply as for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries w i th respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repa- triated w i th in one month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital flows between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 COMOROS Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n-.a. There is no local market in these ins trumen ts. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a max imum ma tur i ty of 90 days. To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls relate to the approval of the unde r ly ing transactions, not to paymen ts or receipts. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Settlement of debt is permitted upon presentation of supporting documen ta t ion. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending is permitted for economic activities in the Comoros. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending does not take place in practice. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There is no local market in these securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 235 D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. n.a. n.a. No transactions of th is type are carried ou t. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the new zai're. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements The external value of the new zai're is determined in biweekly f ix ing sessions, in wh ich all f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and the Central Bank of the Congo (BCC) participate. The rate emerging from the f ix ing session is based on the rate prevailing in the unof- ficial exchange market. All commercial banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions ( inc lud ing authorized exchange offices) are permitted to trade in foreign exchange. Banks de- termine daily the va lue in new zai'res of the transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and dollars, and report to the BCC the calculated average effective buy ing and selling rates of the three currencies as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The BCC uses these rates to arrive at the average effec t ive ex- change rate of the new zai're against 23 other currencies and un i ts, based on the rates provided by the IMF between the dollar and the other currencies. The f ix ing rate is used as an ind ica t ive rate at the opening of trading on the day of the ir pub l ica t ion and is applied to all government operations, including debt-service payments and the transactions of government-owned enterprises. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In the ir transactions w i th customers, commercial banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1%. The spread between the buy ing and sell- ing rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5%. A charge of 0.2% is levied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. No. Yes. n.a. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of 23 convertible cur- rencies whose rates are published da i ly by the BCC. Residents must make paymen ts to nonresidents in one of the listed conver t ib le currencies or by cred i t ing nonres ident accounts in new zai'res or in foreign currency. Settlements w i th the member countries of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made through SDR and Central African Un it of Account (UCAC) accounts established under arrangements concluded by the BCC w i th the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these SDR and UCAC accounts at the end of settlement period —each quarter for CEPGL countries and each mon th for CEEAC countries —are transferable in to the cu r rency s t ipu la ted by the creditor. V i r tua l ly all settlements (other than for reexports) w i th member countries of ihe CEEAC are effected through accounts w i th foreign correspondent banks after clearing th rough the Central A f r ican Clearing House th rough i ts account w i th the BCC. Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Yes. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 237 Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Yes. There are arrangements w i th Bu rundi and Rwanda. Payments are made through the SDR accounts of the BCC and the central banks of the other two countries. The BCC regulates exchange transactions, supervises au thor ized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange pos i t ions. No. Yes. Yes. Only na t iona ls of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold w i th in the country outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive m i n i ng concessions. Foreign ind iv idu a ls or corporate persons and corpo- rate persons by law may do so on ly on beha lf of, and for the account of, au thor ized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and d iamonds by au thor ized marketing agencies do not requ ire pr ior authorization from the BCC. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely hold means of payment in domestic currency. As of November 21, 1997, however, the physical importation and exporta- t ion of foreign banknotes and coins requires the prior wr i t ten au tho r iza t ion of the BCC for amounts exceeding $20,000. Yes. Yes. The importation of banknotes of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is permitted up to the equ iva lent of $100. An un l im i ted amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought in to the coun try. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Effec t ive December 27, 1997, these accounts were permitted. These accounts, wh ich may be credited or debited w i thout restrictions, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for wh ich the BCC pub l ishes exchange rates. Au thor ized banks are permitted to open accounts in foreign currency for res iden ts and nonresidents w i thout prior approval from the BCC. Pub l ic and/or sem ipub l ic enterprises may open foreign bank accounts w i th prior authorization from the BCC. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited or debited w i thout restriction. Domestic currency accounts The opening of regular foreign accounts is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion of the BCC. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BCC. Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection W i th a few exceptions, imports are subject to a presh ipment inspection. The amoun t, the invoice price, and the qua l i ty of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Control Office of the Democratic Repub l ic of the Congo (OCC); however, in special cases ver if ica t ion may be effected upon a r r iva l, subject to a wa iver from the BCC. Ver if ica t ion certificates are not required for import va lues (f.o.b.) of up to SDR 1,000 a ta r i ff item, or up to SDR 5,000 a sh ipmen t. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All goods shipped by sea must be transported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded w i th the Office Congolais du fret mar i t ime (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated w i th that office. Positive l ist Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammun i t ion, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authorization from the government. The customs ta r i ff rates range from 5% to 30%, w i th a special rate of 5% for some essential indu s t r ial imports. The rate of the turnover tax ranges up to 13%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Exports and Export Proceeds Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank w i t h in 10 days after the date of sh ipmen t. W i th exports on consignment, export proceeds sha ll be repatriated as soon as the merchandise has been sold. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the OCC; coffee exports also require a qua l i ty certificate from the National Coffee Office (ONC). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 239 Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas Export taxes Yes. Export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Payments on account of inv is ib le transactions are regulated. There are no controls on payments for un load ing and storage costs or on the use of credit cards abroad. All other payments are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Payment of comm iss ions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Transfer abroad of foreigners' wages for the preceding year is limited. Transfer abroad of expatriates' wages is limited to 50% of net wages in the case of new employees, provided that the rema in ing 50% is adequate to cover local needs. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the authorized banks as needed by the account holders. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments There are controls on treasury b i ll transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Both outward and inward direct investments are permitted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Inves tment Code is permitted only at the t ime of l iqu ida t ion, na t iona l iza t ion, or par t ial or total transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Capital movements are unres tr ic ted, generally au thor ized, and do not require licenses. However, they must be carried out through the bank ing system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Bridge loans require prior consent of the BCC. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The ceiling on the foreign exchange position of each bank is authorized by the BCC. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts November 21. The physical importation and exportation of foreign banknotes and coins require the prior written authorization of the BCC for amounts exceeding $20,000. Resident accounts December 27. Residents were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01 which is the official buying and selling rate. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to all coun- tries are subject to a commission of 0.75%, with a m in imum charge of CFAF 75. Ex- empt from this commission are payments of the state, the Postal Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or tra in ing abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement w i th the Republic of Congo. Foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office is subject to a commission of 0.5%, w i th a m in imum charge of CFAF 100. An additional commis- sion of 0.25% is levied on all paymen ts to countries that are not members of the BEAC. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers may a lways cover the ir position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since the Republic of Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usu- ally made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined with the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. n .a. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Paymen ts to the fo l low ing countries, a l though subject to declaration, are unrestricted: ( 1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 REPUBLIC OF CONGO countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burk ina Faso, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment transactions w i th all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations (GDCFR) in the M in is t ry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Economy, P lann ing, and Finance (MEPF), wh ich has delegated approval au thor i ty to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au thor ized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n.a. Yes. n.a. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewe l ry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEPF is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The prior authorization of the MEPF is required to import or export gold in any fo rm. Exempt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on be- half of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no off ic ial exports of gold. n.a. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an un l im i ted amount in banknotes or other payment in s t rumen ts in French francs. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the ir importation or purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the non- resident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that the banknotes had been purchased w i th funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. n.a. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts REPUBLIC OF CONGO 243 Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts and licenses for impo r ts from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Licenses also require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the GDCFR. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses An annual import program classifies imports by zones: (1) the countries of the UDEAC, (2) France, (3) o ther Operations Account countries, (4) EU countries other than France, and (5) all rema in ing countries. Thirteen product items under th is pro- gram require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in the Repub l ic of Congo. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and w i thout li- censes fo l low ing the implementation of the UDEAC customs and tax reforms (1994). All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Licenses w i th quotas Impor ts of cement are subject to quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The common du ty rates of the UDEAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods requiring special protection. Intra-UDEAC cus- toms duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been introduced on imports of goods prev ious ly sub- ject to qu an t i t a t ive restrictions. These surcharges are to be e l im ina ted in three to six years, w i th the longer period app ly ing to certain ag r icu l tu ral and tex t i le products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the BEAC zone must be collected and repatriated w i t h in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Surrender requ iremen ts Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i th in eight days of the due date. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quo tas Export taxes n .a. n.a. All export transactions relating to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. n.a. In p r inc ip le, all exports requ i re an exchange comm i tmen t. But most exports to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Yes. n.a. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject only to declaration and pres- entation of appropriate documents to the MEPF for approval, wh ich is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the monitoring func t ion of the MEPF has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Adm in i- stration. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Interest payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Profit/dividends Prior approval Transfers of income are permitted w i th the authorization of the GDCFR. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in French francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, w i th a maxi- mum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 5 million a trip; and (3) for off ic ial travel, the equ iva lent of ex- penses paid and CFAF 100,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in w r i t ing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure and surrender w i th in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Allowances in excess of the limits are subject to the authorization of the MEPF. Yes. There is a l im it of CFAF 100,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion a t r ip. Yes. Yes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in the Repub l ic of Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Transfers by residents of amoun ts smaller than CFAF 500,000 to nonmember countries of the franc zone are subject to s imp le declaration, and those exceeding CFAF 500,000 require prior au tho r iza t ion. Transfers to nonmember countries by nonresidents l i v i ng in the Repub l ic of Congo for less than one year are subject to authorization. Members of d ip loma t ic m iss ions, em- ployees of international organizations, employees of companies operating in the Republic of Congo, government employees, and members of liberal professions are exempt from th is regulation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Pensions Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits REPUBLIC OF CONGO 245 n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and approved by the MEPF, is limited to the ceilings applied for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All amoun ts due from residents of foreign countries w i th respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due. Surrender requirements Proceeds should be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements between the Republic of Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free from restrictions, although ex post declarations are required. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in the Republic of Congo by residents or nonresi- dents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Republic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEPF. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, how- ever, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Con- golese government; and (2) shares similar to securities whose issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Republic of Congo has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inve s tment securities Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirement that may app ly) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad. All lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special au thor iza t ion is obtained from the MEPF. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is au tho r iza t ion: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks and (2) other loans whose total amount outstanding does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the GDCFR w i th in 20 days. Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEPF. Exempt from th is require- ment, however, are loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least two years. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the GDCFR w i th in 20 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. Yes. Yes. The prior approval of the MEPF is required. Investments, inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are d irec t ly or ind i- rectly controlled by persons in the Repub l ic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo, require the prior approval of the MEPF, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments must be declared to the MEPF w i th in 20 days. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican colon. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax The external va lue of the colon is determined in the interbank market. Foreign ex- change trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among authorized traders, wh ich is where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its inter- vention operations. Foreign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized in s t i tu t ions outside the MONED. The government and pub l ic sector in s t i- tu t ions conduct foreign exchange transactions w i th the state commercial banks and the CB at the off ic ial reference exchange rate, wh ich is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market dur ing the day. In Ju ly, the rate of the crawl was reduced to an average of n ine centavos a day (on average and 10.5% on an annual basis). A tax of 15%, calculated on the average da i ly spread between buy ing and selling rates, applies to all foreign exchange transactions in the exchange market. That amount mu st be transfered to the CB w i th in one day. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Near ly all paymen ts for exchange transac t ions are made in dollars. Trade paymen ts to Central America may be made in dollars or in local currencies. No. Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and F inanc ial In s t i tu- tions (SUGEF). International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Na tu ral and ju r id i c al persons may buy or sell domes t ica l ly produced gold (except national archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 COSTA RICA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the M in is try of Econ- omy and Commerce. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs on most goods range from 5% to 20%. In addition, the fo l low ing taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (2) selective consumption taxes at rates ranging from zero to 75%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of fuel are made by the Refineria Costa Ricense de Petroleo and imports of grain by the Consejo Nacional de Produccion. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days before the end of the fiscal year. Surrender requirements No. Documentation requirements An export form (formulario unico de exportation) must be f i led. Export licenses W i thout quotas Licenses are required for the following: armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; sugar from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane; beans, rice, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and thoroughbred cattle from the National Council of Production; air- planes from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the National Museum; tobacco from the Tobacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and wild animals and plants of the forest from the M in is try of Agriculture and Livestock; ba- nanas from the National Banana Corporation (BANDECO); coffee from the Coffee Institute; and sugar from the Agro-Industrial Cane League (LAICA). In addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank 's approval is required be- fore the CB will grant an export license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export taxes COSTA RICA 249 Taxes are levied on traditional exports and, in some cases, are graduated in line w i th international prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside Central America, and exporters of these products are entitled to receive freely nego- t iab le tax credit certificates at the fo l low ing rates based on f.o.b. va lue: 15% for ex- ports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20% for exports to Canada. These certificates ceased to be issued to new exporters after 1992, but exporters exist- ing at that time benefit from them, consistent with previous contractual arrangements. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments A 15% w i tho ld ing tax is levied on prof i ts and d iv idends, and remittances of interest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or their f inanc ial entities recognized by the CB as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, and for inter- est payments on government borrow ing abroad. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Repatriation must take place w i th in 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. Surrender requirements No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Capital Transactions n.a. No. The Na t ional Budget Au tho r i ty (composed of the Minister of Finance, the M in is ter of P lann ing, and the President of the CB) is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Private commercial banks, f inance companies, and cooperatives must in fo rm the CB when contracting credits abroad. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Imports and import payments March 19. The sales tax was reduced to 13% from 15%. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cote d ' lvo i re is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the f ixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate be- tween the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from all countries outside the WAEMU. Banks levy a proportional commission of 2.5%c and a freely fixed commission a transaction on transfers to all non -WAEMU countries. The proceeds of the proportional commission are repaid in fu ll to the Treasury. Transfers between WAEMU member countries are subject to a commission freely fixed by the banks. No. No. Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one mon th for certain specified goods and three mon ths for goods designated essential commodities, w i th renewal of cover only once. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is pe rm i t- ted w i th prior au tho r iza t ion from the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance (MEF), only for paymen ts for imports of goods and only for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the BCEAO is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account country. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, or the Post Office Adm in is t ra t ion, any informa t ion necessary for compiling the balance of paymen ts statistics. It also has powers from the MEF for monitoring the banks' external positions. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control au thor i t ies Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MEF. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Yes. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 251 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Impor ts and exports of gold from or to any other coun try require prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the MEF, wh ich is seldom granted. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is not prohibited. However, re- pu rchas ing by the BCEAO of exported banknotes rema ins suspended. In add i t ion, the sending of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and the ir correspon- dent banks located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above th is ceiling requires documen ta t ion demonstrating either the impor ta t ion of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonres ident deposits at local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell any amount exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 to an authorized intermediary bank w i t h in eight days. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts at local f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, sub- ject to prior au thor iza t ion from the MEF. The ma in tenance of bank accounts abroad is not exp l ic i t ly prohibited by the legisla- t ion in force; however, the leg is la t ion does p roh ib it all transfers aimed at the cons t i tu- t ion of assets abroad by a resident except where authorized by the MEF. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The ma in tenance of foreign exchange accounts by nonresidents is not expressly al- lowed under the law. In practice, on the basis of an interpretation of the law, it is sub- ject to the prior authorization of the Ministry responsible for Finance. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the WAEMU zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or deb- ited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. Transfers cf funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 COTE D'lVOIRE Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 are subject to th is requirement. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Inspection for qua l i ty and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion; imports valued between CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion and CFAF 3 m i l l ion may be subject to random inspection. LCs are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Account coun- tries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requir- ing licenses issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Import licenses for a shortlist of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the M in i s t ry of Commerce. A max imum tar iff rate of 35% is in effect. A statistical tax of 2.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. Imports from members of the WAEMU and the ECOWAS are exempt from the surcharges. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports, including those to countries in the Operations Account area, must be received w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Foreign exchange derived from exports shall be surrendered to authorized in te rmed i- ary banks w i th in 30 days of the payment due date. The authorized intermediary banks shall then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer th rough the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exports require a customs declaration. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific un i ta ry export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the Price S tab i l iza t ion Fund. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. All exports va lued at more than CFAF 1 m i l l ion, regardless of the ir des t ina t ion, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports of lumber are subject to quan t i ta t ive quotas allocated th rough an auc t ion. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 253 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to indicative limits. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade, foreign workers' wages, pensions, and fam i ly maintenance and ali- mony are permitted freely. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The transfer abroad of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan is subject to au thor iza t ion if the loan itself was subject to prior authorization. For payments of depreciation of direct investments, the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF is required, as th is is not expressly provided for in the legislation. The limits are CFAF 500,000 a trip for tou r ism and CFAF 75,000 a day up to one mon th for business trave l. Allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to authori- zation from the MEF. The l im i ts are the same as for tourist travel. The l im i ts are the same as for tourist travel, n.a. Credit cards can be used up to the ceilings for tourist and business travel, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts All proceeds from transactions with non-Operations Account countries must be collected and repatriated in fu l l. All proceeds from transactions w i th non-Operations Account countries must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements to foreign countries are restricted. Capital may freely enter the member countries of the WAEMU, except w i th respect to direct investment that is subject to prior declaration and certain loan operations requiring advance authoriza- tion. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the government of Cote d'lvoire; and (2) foreign shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been au thor ized. W i th the exception of controls relating to foreign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France, Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also ma in ta ined over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit w i th foreign na tural persons and fore ign f i rms and in s t i tu t ion s, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscr ib ing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 COTE D'lVOIRE On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions, provided that a prior declaration is made in the case of direct inves tmen t. These transac t ions are subject to the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MEF. Securities th at have been authorized in advance may be purchased by a resident only after the latter has obtained prior approval of the MEF. The sale of securities con s t i tu t ing the l iqu i- dation of an investment by means of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident may be freely executed, subject to the prescriptions concerning the f inanc ial settle- ment of the operation. Settlement of the operation on securities by transfer abroad or by crediting a nonresident account requires that an exchange au tho r iza t ion be subm i t- ted for the approval of the MEF in support of documents attesting to the v a l id i ty of the operation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated w i th them require the pr ior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell the securities of resident corporations abroad. If these opera- tions result in the foreign control of establishments resident in Cote d ' lvo i re, the for- eign investors are required to f i le a declaration in advance w i th the MEF. The sale of securities cons t i tu t ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tment abroad are subject to prior declaration to the MEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These sales are subject to the prior authorization of the MEF (except those sales in- vo lv ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tmen t, wh ich are not restricted). Purchase abroad by residents These purchases are subject to the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents may freely sell money market ins trumen ts abroad. Sales cons t i tu t ing the liquidation of an inves tment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized intermedi- ary bank. The issue of money market ins t rumen ts abroad by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. Yes. Yes. Yes. These in s t rumen t s, wh ich are almost nonex is tent in Cote d ' lvo i re, fa ll w i th in the scope of the regulatory framework generally applicable to securities and inves tmen ts. For the issue of securities cons t i tu t ing a loan, the borrower must request advance au thor iza t ion from the MEF. However, this au thor iza t ion is not required for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply w i th specific cond i t ions as to amount and interest rate. These credits may be granted, subject to the fo l low ing provisions: (1) Debts arising from the exporting of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repa- triated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date. The payment due date is the date specified in the commercial contract. It must in any case be no more than 120 days after .the sh ipment of the goods. (2) Debts a r is ing from payment for services must also be collected and surrendered on the exchange market no later than two mon ths a f ter the payment due date. No a dm i n i s t r a t i ve l i m it is set for t h is due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents COTE D'lVOIRE 255 These credits may be freely granted. Their repayment is generally authorized, subject to the presentation of documents attesting to the va l id i ty of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The gran t ing of f inanc ial credits requires the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be subm i t ted w i th the required vouchers to the MEF. These fac i l i t ies may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be trans- ferred from abroad by an authorized in termed iary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct inves tment company established in Cote d ' lvo i re and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEF. The transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service a loan is subject to au tho r iza t ion if the loan itself required prior au thor iza t ion. Requests for au tho r iza t ion mu st be ac- companied by all suppor t ing documents necessary to ensure the va l id i ty of the opera- t ion, such as au tho r iza t ion to borrow and references from the report prepared in connection w i th disbursement of the proceeds of the loan, and the like. The g ran t ing of these fac i l i t ies requires the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these fac i l i t ies, an exchange au thor iza t ion must be subm i t ted w i th the required vouchers to the MEF. These facilities may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be trans- ferred from abroad by an authorized in termed iary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct inves tment company established in Cote d ' lvo i re and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEF. Inves tment abroad ( inc lud ing purchases of real estate) by a resident is subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the MEF, wh ich must be requested by the party concerned in a letter designating the authorized intermediary that w i ll execute paymen t. This paymen t, either by the transfer of funds abroad or by the crediting of a foreign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the t ime period agreed upon by the parties. Inves tmen ts are subject to prior declaration to the MEF, wh ich has a period of two mon ths in wh ich to request the suspension of the operation. The transfer of a direct inves tment by a nonres ident to another nonresident is also subject to pr ior declaration. Special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain prior- ity sectors and priority geographical areas. The incen t ives inc lude exemption from customs duties and ta r i f fs on all imported capital equ ipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d' lvo ire. In addition, all such inves tmen ts are exempt for a specified period, depending on the inves tment sector or area, from corporate prof it taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100% of applicable tax up to the fou r th- to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75% of the tax in the th ird- to- last year, 50% in the second-to-last year, and 25% in the last year. Imports of raw materials for wh ich no equ iva len ts are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in f rancs after presentation of the requ is i te vouchers to the MEF and the M in i s t ry 's subsequent approval. The l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts, whe ther Ivoirien inves tmen ts abroad or for- eign inves tmen ts in Cote d' lvo ire, mu st be reported to the M in i s t ry w i t h in 20 days of the operation. Purchases are subject to prior authorization by the MEF, wh ich must be requested by the par ty concerned in a letter des igna t ing the authorized in termed iary that w i ll exe- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 COTE D'lVOIRE Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents cute payment. This paymen t, either by the transfer of funds abroad or by the crediting of a foreign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the time period agreed upon by the parties. Purchases can be freely made if they are not direct investments in a business, branch, or corporation. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs after presentation of the requisite vouchers to the MEF and the subsequent M in i s t ry 's approval. The gran t ing of a loan by a resident to a nonresident requires the prior au thor iza t ion of the MEF. Concerned ind iv idua ls may not carry out such operations as a professional occupation w i thout prior authorization, and they must be registered on the list of fi- nancial establishments. The borrower must obtain prior authorization from the MEF, unless the amount of the loan does not exceed CFAF 50 million and the interest rate does not exceed the nor- mal market rate. Loans contracted to finance imports and exports are not subject to prior authorization. Except for inheritances and gifts, for wh ich payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other operations require prior authorization of the MEF. Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Imm igran ts who have obtained resident status must obtain prior au thor iza t ion from the MEF to settle debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions On presentation of documentary evidence of emigration, the parties concerned may, w i thout prior authorization, obtain the transfer of a sum equal to a max imum of CFAF 500,000 a person. Excess amounts may be transferred on authorization of the MEF. Borrowing abroad Authorized intermediaries are free to borrow abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are not permitted to hold l iqu id assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover the requirements of the ir current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These operations may be freely executed in the case of commercial credits but are subject to the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MEF in the case of loans, f inanc ial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange General regulations apply on lending locally in foreign currency or pu rcha s ing locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. n.a. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The same regulations app ly as for foreign inves tmen t. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 257 Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios. Open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian kuna. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the interbank foreign exchange marke t. The Croatian Na t ional Bank (CNB) may set in te rven t ion exchange rates, wh ich it applies in transactions w i th banks outside the interbank market for leveling undue f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate. No. No. The CNB has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a limited for- ward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements No. Operative There is an arrangement w i th I ta ly. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade The CNB formu la tes and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign ex- change regulations. Companies w ish ing to engage in foreign trade must register w i th the commercial courts. Yes. Yes. Yes. The exportation of unprocessed gold and gold coins by producers of gold or by authorized commercial banks is subject to the approval of the CNB. Importation of gold is subject to the approval of the MOE. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 259 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be exported w i th special permis- sion from the CNB. Resident na tu ral persons may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 1,000. An addi- tional amount up to the equivalent of DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is w i thd rawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel ex- penses. In both cases, the CNB may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case- by-case basis. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be imported w i th special permis- sion from the CNB. Resident Accounts Resident na tu ral and jur id ical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the CNB has the authority to allow resi- dent ju r id ical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts w i th foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and to meet the requirement of regular foreign trade activities abroad. The law also makes specific provisions for resident jur id ical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to ma in ta in accounts w i th foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the CNB. Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident na tural and jur id ical persons may open foreign exchange accounts w i th fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for pay- ments abroad for conversion into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic cur- rency into a foreign currency is permitted. As a measure against money laundering, jur id ical persons may not credit these accounts w i th foreign banknotes exceeding $20,000, w i thout special permission from the CNB. Effective March 12, 1997, non- resident ju r id ical persons can w i thdraw up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000 each month from their deposit accounts. These accounts may be opened with the proceeds from sales of goods and services or w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Foreign exchange may be purchased w i th funds held in these accounts w i thout restriction. Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (na tural persons) of the for- mer Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) blocked since 1992 have been replaced by claims on the Croatian government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 CROATIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Advance payments and down payments for imports are permitted. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures An invoice or agreement is required for transfers. There are no import quotas, although such quotas are, in principle, allowed for under the trade law, under conditions similar to WTO rules. All imports are free from licens- ing requirements except for a list of products whose importation is controlled by in- ternational agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work), and a small number of other products (notably iron tubes in bars). The importation of these items is allowed on a case-by- case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to customs tar iffs of up to 25%, w i th a few exceptions. The ex- emption for duty-free imports by travelers is HRK 300. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the va lue of $500 are subject to a s imp l if ied customs pro- cedure w i th a un if ied tariff rate of 8%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are applied. Re turn ing citizens may bring into the country household effects du ty free in an amount that is relative to the period spent abroad for household effects and for private business purposes w i thout restrictions, but are sub- ject to the approval of the M in is try of Finance on a case-by-case basis. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw materials and intermediate products used in the production of exports are exempt from all import duties and taxes, provided that the va lue added of the export product is at least 30% of the value of the imported items and that export proceeds are received in convertible currency. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Guarantees Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in f u ll w i th in 90 days of date of exportation. This period may be extended up to 150 days w i th permission from the CNB. If payment terms in excess of 90 days have been agreed to w i th foreign impo r t- ers, the credit arrangement must be registered w i th the CNB. No. Yes. Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for wh ich perm i ts mu st be obtained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); several basic foodstuffs to ensure adequate domestic supplies; unrenewable resources (oil and na tu ral gas); and hides and wood. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 261 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those ap- p ly ing to exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward portfolio inves tment is not restricted, except in central bank short-term securi- ties in the pr imary market. In general, outward portfolio investment is restricted. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents The restriction applies to na tural persons only. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Only purchases in the primary market are restricted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The restriction applies to natural persons only. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. No. Borrowing abroad, extending loans abroad, and issu ing guarantees, sureties, and fi- nanc ial backup facilities have to be registered w i th the CNB. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons, including commercial banks, may borrow abroad but are required to register the loans contracted w i th the CNB. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident ju r id ical persons may extend f inanc ial credits to nonresidents only to an en t i ty abroad, in fu ll or majority ownership. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Yes. Yes. Foreign direct inves tment abroad by residents must be registered w i th the MOE w i th in 30 days from the signature of the contract. Inwa rd direct inves tment Investments must be registered w i th the commercial courts only. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, inc lud ing tax paymen ts. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresident na tu ral persons may acquire real estate in Croatia through inher i tance as long as the ir coun try of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 CROATIA Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may pur- chase real estate only under the same conditions. Nonresident na tu ral or ju r id ical per- sons engaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these conditions and may sell it to resident or nonresident ju r id ical persons. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements apply only to kuna -dom ina ted deposits. Liquid asset requirements Banks are required to hold 55% of short-term FCDs in investment-grade foreign banks or in other l iqu id forms. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 30% of the bank 's Tier 1 cap i ta l. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Inves tment funds may not invest more than 5% of the va lue of the fund in the securi- ties of a single issuer. However, th is l im it may increase to 10% provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addi- tion, inves tment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer only if the total face va lue of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face va lue of all the bonds of the same issuer, if they are in circulation. For purposes of de term in ing th is l im i t, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one-half their face value. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 Nonresident accounts March 72. Foreign jur id ical persons were permitted to w i thd raw up to the foreign currency equ iva lent of HRK 15,000 each mon th from the ir deposit accounts at authorized banks. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 17. Amendmen ts relating to money launder ing were made to the Foreign Ex- change System Act. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions The Cyprus pound is pegged to a basket based on the ECU at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, w i th in margins of 2.25% around the ECU central rate. Subject to certain limitations, inc lud ing a l im it on spreads between buy ing and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. No. No. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated w i th their customers. For dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward margins may not be larger than those applied by the Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) for cover for a similar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to purchase forward cover from the CBC at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign cur- rencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The CBC offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases of dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months and for imports norma l ly for up to nine months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation w i th authorized deal- ers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of bona fide transactions. On October 7, 1993, the CBC notified the IMF of restrictions imposed previously against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursuant to relevant UN Security Council resolutions. These restrictions were terminated on October 16, 1996, but bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen. Economic sanctions against Iraq, L ibya, and the UNITA organization pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions are administered by the CBC and relevant government departments. On February 11, 1998, pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1132 (1997), economic sanctions were implemented against the m i l i tary jun ta in Sierra Leone. Payment arrears No. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 CYPRUS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for num isma t ic collection pur- poses. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bullion at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bullion requires the permission of the CBC. Author- ized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of dis- posing of it to industrial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 100. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. In the case of failure to declare the banknotes imported on arrival, nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in Cypriot or foreign banknotes. Authorized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks in exchange for foreign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from authorized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival, as well as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds. In addition, departing nonresidents may convert, through authorized dealers, domestic currency up to £C 100 into foreign banknotes, which they can export. Nonresidents entering Cyprus should declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes that they plan to reexport, deposit with authorized dealers, or use to pur- chase immovable property or goods to export. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Residents dealing w i th transit or triangular trade may deposit up to 97.5% of sale pro- ceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for the value of traded goods. Resi- dents engaged in manufacturer-exporter activities may deposit up to 50% of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in production. Both transit traders and manufacturers-exporters are, however, required to convert in to Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances in excess of the amount that is necessary for payments of traded goods or raw materials during the fo l low ing three months. Resident hoteliers may deposit in such accounts part of the ir receipts in for- eign currency that they need to make imminent installment payments on foreign cur- rency loans. Effective August 11, 1997, resident lawyers, accountants, and stockbrokers who handle funds of their nonresident clients may also ma in ta in foreign currency accounts or external accounts with authorized dealers. Approval of the CBC is required for residents other than those referred to above and below. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency accounts, external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts w i th banks abroad all of the ir foreign currency holdings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident ind iv idua ls tempo- rarily working abroad may ma in ta in their foreign currency earnings in foreign cur- rency accounts, external accounts w i th banks in Cyprus, or accounts w i th banks abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted CYPRUS 265 Approval of the CBC is required for residents other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph. Such approval, however, is granted only in exceptional circumstances. These accounts are designated as external accounts. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresidents may open and ma in ta in accounts w i th authorized dealers, wh ich may be credited freely w i th payments from nonresidents (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency accounts), w i th proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents ( inc lud ing declared banknotes), and w i th authorized paymen ts from residents. On June 11, 1997, the amount that nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus and paid in domestic currency were allowed to deposit in external or foreign exchange accounts w i th authorized banks was set at £C 500 mon th ly to 80% of their mon th ly wages or £C 400 mon th ly, wh ichever is higher, w i thout CBC approval. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remit- tances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for paymen ts in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incor- porated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status (generally designated as off- shore companies) by the CBC as well as their nonresident employees may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting the ir paymen ts in Cyprus. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the same regulations as for foreign currency accounts app ly. Blocked accounts are ma in ta ined in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately be transferred outside of Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident beneficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In add i t ion to income, up to one-third of the p r inc ipal (effective Janua ry 1, 1998) or £C 50,000, wh ichever is higher, may be released for transfer abroad in each calendar year. Thus, blocked accounts are now transferable abroad w i th in two years after the date of blocking. In addition, blocked funds may be released for the fo l low ing pay- ments in Cyprus: (1) to meet the holder's personal expenses in Cyprus (up to £C 10,000 a year w i thout reference to the CBC); and (2) to purchase any securities quoted on the Cyprus Stock Exchange. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ irement Prior approval of the CBC is required for remittances to suppliers exceeding £C 50,000. Au thor ized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents foreign ex- change up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; for larger amoun ts, approval by the CBC is required. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 CYPRUS Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports are free of licensing requirements. A license is required for a small number of commodities prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Indus t ry, and Tourism (MCIT). The import of goods or ig ina t ing in Turkey is prohibited. Nonresidents may not import commodities into Cyprus unless they are granted a spe- cial import license by the MCIT. The importation of goods such as motor vehicles to be used temporarily by visitors, goods to be exhibited in Cyprus and reexported, etc., is not subject to th is requirement. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose value exceeds £C 1,000 are subject to exchange control mon i tor ing to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers w i t h o ut de lay. No. Yes. There are no licensing requirements curren t ly in force. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for inv is ib les abroad require the approval of the CBC, but approval for cer- tain types of paymen ts has been delegated to authorized dealers. Authorized dealers may carry out paymen ts of freights, w i thout prior approval of the CBC. However, if the payment exceeds £C 5,000, documentary evidence must be subsequently submitted to the CBC. The CBC approves applications for the remit- tance of insurance prem iums owed to foreign insurance companies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Commissions Prior approval Payments in excess of 5% of the price of exported goods require prior approval of the CBC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends Profits and d iv idends from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad w i thout l im i ta t ion after payment of due taxes and charges. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized dealers are allowed, w i thout reference to the CBC, to sell to resident trav- elers foreign exchange up to £C 1,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Moreover, payments for travel may be made, through credit cards issued by authorized dealers. The allowance for business travel is £C 150 a day w i th a max imum of £C 1,500 a t r ip, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits CYPRUS 267 or £C 80 a day w i th a m ax imum of £C 800 a tr ip if the traveler holds an in terna t ional business credit card. Au thor ized dealers may approve, w i thout reference to the CBC, applications by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents and hotels up to £C 10,000 for each organized tr ip. The CBC approves app l ica t ions for h igher amoun ts to cover bona f ide expenses w i th- out l im i ta t ion. The ind ica t ive l im it is £C 5,000 for medical expenses abroad. Un l im i ted add i t ional amoun ts are provided w i th the approval of the CBC. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of l iv ing, wh ich is reviewed yearly. The current annual allowance for l iv ing expenses for studies in western European coun- tries, except Greece, is £C 7,000; for North America, £C 8,200; for Au s t ra l ia, £C 4,600; and for Greece and all other countries, £C 4,200. There is no l im it on the rem i t tance of foreign exchange for payment of tu i t ion fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Greater amoun ts may be allowed w i th the approval of the CBC. Subscriptions and membership fees Quantitative limits Prior approval of the CBC is required for amoun ts exceeding £C 300. Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized dealers may carry out paymen ts for subscription to professional bodies or societies up to £C 300 a transac t ion, w i thout reference to the CBC. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus by resident f i rms or ind iv idu a ls and are paid in local currency may deposit w i th au thor ized dealers up to 80% of the ir mon th ly remunera t ion or £C 400 mon th ly, wh ichever is h ighe r, in external or foreign currency accounts. The balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad w i thout reference to the CBC. For deposits or transfers of amoun ts in excess of the l im i ts, approval of the CBC is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Family ma in tenance /a l imony Quantitative limits Residents may remit, through authorized dealers, up to £C 200 every six mon ths to relatives or other persons who reside abroad w i thout reference to the CBC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Prior approval of the CBC is required for greater amoun ts. Credit card use abroad Au thor ized dealers may issue personal credit cards valid abroad to any resident, ex- cept for residents s tudy ing abroad or temporar i ly l iv ing abroad. These cards, wh ich are designated as in te rna t ional personal cards, may be used abroad for paymen ts to hotels and res tauran ts; transpor ta t ion expenses; doctors, c l in ics, or hosp i ta ls; in terna t ional telephone calls; cash w i thd rawa ls up to £C 100 a tr ip; and any other paymen ts of a total va lue not exceeding £C 300 a tr ip. In add i t ion, international personal cards may be used for payments abroad or from Cyprus up to £C 300 for each transaction for the fo l low ing purposes: exam ina t ion fees, application fees for admission to foreign edu- cational in s t i tu t ion s, subscriptions to professional bodies or societies, fees for enroll- ment in professional or educational seminars or conferences, and hotel reservation fees. In terna t ional personal cards may also be used for ma il orders of books up to £C 300. Au thor ized dealers may also issue company cards va l id abroad (designated as in terna- t ional business cards) to resident business people and profess iona ls who are invo lved in the in te rna t ional trade of goods or services and travel abroad on bus iness. Holders of in te rna t ional bus iness cards may charge ma il orders of books or equ ipment for the company up to £C 1,000, as we ll as the paymen ts a l lowed for ho lders of in te rna t ional personal cards. Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 CYPRUS Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from inv is ib les must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers abroad require authorization from the CBC. Nonresident aliens may own up to 49% of the issued capital of pub l ic companies (i.e., companies whose shares are admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange) other than banks, wh i le there is no limit on the total percentage of the capital of such companies owned by nonresidents of Cypriot origin, provided each nonresident (Cypriot or alien) person's shareholding does not exceed 5% of the company's issued capital. For public companies in the banking sector, the l im it on total nonresident (Cypriot and alien) participation is 15% of the company's issued capital, of wh ich not more than 6% may be owned by nonresident aliens, provided each nonresident person's share- ho ld ing does not exceed 0.5% of the company 's issued capital. Public companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transac- tions w i th nonresidents w i thout reference to the CBC, subject to the l im i ts described above. Applications over these l im i ts may be approved by the CBC. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Ou tward portfolio inves tment is permitted only for the fo l low ing residents, besides in s t i tu t ional investors: Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily work ing abroad, who may freely use their balances in foreign currency or external accounts to purchase securities abroad, and for resident employees of mu l t ina t ional enterprises who partici- pate in the employee stock purchase p lan offered to them by the ir employer. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is requ ired. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase bonds adm i t ted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange, inc lud ing bonds issued by pub l ic companies and government bonds denominated in Cyp rus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be adm i t ted to the Cyp rus Stock Exchange, but residents are not generally permited to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Except for banks and ins t i tu t ional investors, on ly Cypr iot repatriates and residents temporar i ly work ing abroad may purchase such securities abroad by u s ing th e ir bal- ances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior app roval of the CBC is requ ired. On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonres iden ts may purchase treasury b i l ls denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is requ i red. Purchase abroad by residents Except for banks and in s t i tu t ional inves tors, on ly Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily wo rk ing abroad may purchase money market in s t rum en ts abroad by u s ing the ir balances in fore ign cu r rency or ex ternal accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 269 Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of securities issued by public inves tment companies in Cyp rus is perm i t- ted w i th in the l im i ts applied to capital market securities. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the Cyprus Stock Exchange, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Except for in s t i tu t ional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents tempo ra r i ly working abroad may purchase such securities abroad by us ing the ir balances in foreign currency or ex ternal accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial'credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits w i th a ma tur i ty of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely granted. Other credits require approval of the CBC. Commercial credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to 200 days for imports of goods to Cyprus may be negotiated freely. Other credits are subject to approval of the CBC. Res iden ts other than au thor ized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits w i t h o ut the approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents These credits are subject to approval by the CBC, which is u sua l ly granted for produc t ive projects. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees w i thout reference to the CBC in several cases inc lud ing tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the re fund of advance paymen ts, and guar- antees in respect of any other transactions where an immed ia te payment to the non- resident benef ic iary could be made under the ex is t ing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior approval of the CBC is required. Approval of the CBC is required. The amount of capital that can be directly trans- ferred abroad is limited to £C 0.5 million. If only the issue of a guarantee is required, the amount of the guarantee should not exceed £C 1 m i l l ion. In cases where direct t rans fer of capital as well as a guarantee is required, the total amount should not ex- ceed £C 1 m i l l ion, provided the amount of capital to be directly transferred does not exceed £C 0.5 m i l l ion. In exceptional cases where it appears certain that a large part of the inves tment w i ll be repatriated in a short t ime, the governor of the CBC may ap- prove larger amoun ts. Inves tmen ts requ ire prior approval of the CBC. In most cases, foreign par t ic ipa t ion of up to 100% is pe rm i t ted. An app l ica t ion may be rejected if the proposed inves tment w i ll affect na t ional secur i ty, have adverse env i ronmen tal effects, is deemed h a rm ful for the Cypr iot economy, or if the amount to be invested is lower than ind ica t ive m i n im um l im i t s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 CYPRUS In the primary sector, foreign par t ic ipa t ion of up to 49% is allowed. App l ica t ions are examined by the CBC in consultation w i th the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re, Na tu ral Re- sources, and Env i ronmen t. The ind ica t ive m i n im um amount of inves tment is £C 100,000. There is no l im it on the percentage of foreign par t ic ipa t ion in the manu fac tu r ing sec- tor, or in wholesale and retail trade. The CBC handles the app l ica t ions if the foreign par t ic ipa t ion does not exceed 49% and the amount to be invested is lower th an £C 750,000. O therw ise, app l ica t ions are considered j o i n t ly by the CBC and the MCIT. For most other ac t iv i t ies, foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion of up to 100% is perm i t ted. Over 70 types of services have been c lass if ied into two categories for wh ich the ind ica t ive m i n im um l im i ts of inve s tment are £C 50,000 and £C 100,000. Investors in the tour ism sector are subject to the government tourism policy applicable at the time. The current policy, wh ich was introduced in 1995, provides for up to 49% of foreign participation in hotels and other tou r ism es tab l ishmen ts. However, up to 100% of foreign par t ic ipa t ion may be allowed for supp lemen tary tour ism projects such as golf courses, mar inas, etc. App l ica t ions for the es tab l ishment of new banks, insurance or f inanc ial companies, newspaper and magazine pub l ish ing houses, and new a ir l ines are considered on a case-by-case basis, and the extent of a l lowab le foreign par t ic ipa t ion is decided on the mer i ts of each ind iv idu al case. For a sma ll number of ac t iv i t ies that are considered saturated, no foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion is allowed. These activities include land development, tertiary education, and pub l ic u t i l i ty services governed by specific leg is la t ion, such as d is t r ibu t ion of electricity, telecommunications, etc. Proceeds may be repatriated in f u ll at any t ime after payment of taxes. Residents are generally not allowed to purchase real estate abroad, except when the real estate is part of an authorized direct inves tment project. In accordance w i th the Immovab le Property Acqu i s i t ion (A l iens) Law, aliens cannot acqu ire immovab le property in Cyp rus other than by inher i tance, except w i th the ap- proval of the Council of M in is te rs, and they are required to pay the purchase price w i th foreign exchange. Nonres iden ts of Cypriot origin do not need approval of the Counc il of M in i s te r s. Foreign inves tmen ts in real estate for specu la t ive purposes are not approved. Proceeds are transferab le abroad after payment of taxes, provided the seller acquired the property by pay ing w i th foreign exchange; otherwise, proceeds are t rans fe rab le abroad th rough a blocked accoun t. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Prior approval of the CBC is required. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants For g i f ts or endowmen ts exceeding £C 400 a year, and for the transfer of funds inhe r- ited from residents by nonresidents, prior approval of the CBC is required. Funds inhe r i ted are t rans fe rab le abroad through a blocked account. In case the imm ig rant debtor does not ma in ta in su f f ic ient balances in foreign currency or ex ternal accounts to repay a debt abroad, approval of the CBC is granted for re- payment through local fund s. At the t ime of emigration, emigrants may transfer abroad up to £C 50,000 of the ir local fund s. Any rema in ing local funds are t rans fe rab le abroad through blocked ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 271 accounts. In addition, emigrants who are Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyp rus who were prev ious ly residents in other countries and decide to emigrate again from Cyp rus) may t rans fer abroad in a lump sum all their funds that they p rev ious ly im- ported to Cyp rus and converted in to local funds. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Prior approval of the CBC is required. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers are allowed to maintain working balances w i th foreign banks w i th in l im i ts prescribed by the CBC, as well as deposits abroad held as cover for the ir deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. Au thor ized dealers are allowed to grant med ium- and long-term loans in foreign cur- rencies to nonresidents of up to 20% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. They are also allowed to grant loans and credits to offshore companies registered in Cyprus of up to 10% of the ir deposit l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. In addition, authorized dealers are allowed to lend Cyprus pounds up to a max imum of £C 3,000 to nonresident ind iv idua ls temporar i ly l iv ing in Cyprus, w i thout approval of the CBC. On August 18, 1997, this amount was increased to £C 5,000. For greater amounts, prior approval of the CBC is required. Au thor ized dealers may grant certain short-term credit facilities in foreign currency (e.g., d iscoun t ing b i l ls of exchange) to residents w i thout reference to the CBC. For other lending to residents in foreign currency, prior approval of the CBC is required. Such approval is usua l ly granted for the fo l low ing purposes: to finance transit trade, to provide work ing capital for resident oil companies or for industries operating in the indu s t r ial free zone, to meet the f inanc ial needs of Cyprus A i rw ay s, and to f inance other desirable produc t ive projects. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies, held either by nonresidents or by residents, are d ifferent from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements Yes. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Liquid assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 60% of deposit l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies must be ma in ta ined. For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed l iqu id i ty ratio since January 1, 1996. However, the l iqu id i ty positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for pruden t ial purposes. Accounts in Cyprus pounds are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 9%, whereas ac- counts in foreign currencies are not subject to interest rate ceilings. Credit controls Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresidents' deposit accounts in foreign exchange or in domestic currency are not treated d ifferen t ly from deposit accounts of residents. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts There are prescribed assets that may be held w i th respect to accounts in foreign cur- rencies. Authorized dealers can purchase securities issued abroad, such as securities issued by solvent foreign governments and traded in recognized stock exchanges abroad, w i th in certain l im i ts prescribed by the CBC. Yes. The same conditions app ly as for portfolio investments and inward direct inves tmen ts. The net open/uncovered position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggre- gate net position in all foreign currencies may not exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base, except with the prior approval of the CBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 CYPRUS Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Effective May 29, 1997, insurance companies may invest abroad up to 25% (up from 20%) of their trust fund, in securities quoted in a number of foreign stock exchanges. Public investment companies may invest abroad a max imum of 20% of their portfolio. Other ins t i tu t ional investors are not allowed to invest abroad. Limits (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The Cyprus Stock Exchange and Securities Laws of 1993 to 1997 and the regulations issued under these laws apply un i fo rm ly to transactions by nonresidents and residents. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 August 11. Resident lawyers, accountants, and stockbrokers who hand le funds of their nonresident clients were allowed to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts or external accounts w i th authorized dealers, w i thout reference to the CBC. June 11. The amount that nonresidents temporarily employed in Cyprus, and paid in local currency, would deposit in external or foreign exchange accounts was revised to 80% of mon th ly income or £C 400, wh ichever is h igher, w i thout reference to the CBC. February 11. The requirement of deposits w i th the CBC for advance import paymen ts was abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 29. Authorized dealers were empowered to approve, w i thout reference to the CBC, applications by residents for transactions concerning tr iangu lar trade, i.e., pay- ments through Cyprus for goods transported from one foreign country to another. Capital transactions Controls on direct inves tment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal cap i tal movements March 1. The use of personal in terna t ional credit cards was expanded so as to cover cash w i thd rawa ls up to £C 100 a t r ip, add i t ional payments for any purpose up to £C 300 a tr ip, and ma il orders of books up to £C 300. February 5. The policy was liberalized in regard to direct inves tmen ts in Cyprus by nonresidents. Under the new policy, adm in is t ra t ive procedures have become s imp ler and, in most cases, foreign participation of up to 100% was permitted. Prev ious ly, 100% of nonresident participation was allowed only for the manu fac tu re of products new to Cyprus or products exc lus ive ly for export, as well as selected tour ist projects. The list of saturated activities where no foreign participation is allowed was substan- t ia l ly reduced; it inc ludes land development, ter t iary education, and pub l ic u t i l i ty services that are governed by specific legislation, such as d is t r ibu t ion of electricity, telecommunications, etc. In par t icu lar, wholesale trade and retail trade are no longer considered saturated sectors. January 30. Nonresidents who acquired real estate in Cyprus by pay ing w i th foreign exchange were granted the right to transfer abroad in a lump sum the entire proceeds from the sale of such property, after payment of taxes. Previously, they were allowed to transfer abroad up to £C 50,000 or the original acqu is i t ion cost paid w i th foreign exchange, whichever was higher. The remainder was deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 50,000 a year fo l low ing the year of sale. March 3. Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were p rev ious ly residents in other countries) who decided to emigrate again were granted the r ight to t rans fer abroad in a lump sum all the funds they p rev ious ly imported to Cyp rus and converted to local fund s, in addition to the emigration a l lowance granted to any em ig ran t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 273 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions August 18. The amount that authorized dealers may lend to nonresidents, without CBC approval, was increased. Provisions specific to institutional investors May 29. The percent of their trust fund that insurance companies are allowed to invest abroad increased to 25% from 20%. Changes During 1998 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 11. Economic sanctions against the military jun ta in Sierra Leone were im- plemented pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1132 (1997). Nonresident accounts March 13. The rules governing blocked accounts were liberalized w i th retroactive effect from January 1, 1998, to allow the release of blocked funds w i th in two years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating During 1996 and un t il May 27, 1997, the external value of the koruna was determined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar, w i th the theoretical parity defined using the fo l low ing formu la: CZK 1 = DM 0.036121 + US$0.012305. Between February 28, 1996 and May 27, 1997, the fluctuation band was ±7.5% of the central rate. On May 27, 1997, both the currency basket and the fluctuation band were dismantled, and, since then, the external value of the koruna is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Czech National Bank (CNB) may intervene in the foreign exchange market in order to smooth large intraday volatility swings of the deutsche mark/koruna rate. The CNB publishes daily rates of some selected currencies against the koruna for customs and accounting purposes. Commercial banks set their own exchange rate w i th no limitation. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are responsible for the administration of ex- change controls and regulations, in accordance w i th the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority over governmental credits, central and local authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold bullion may, with some exceptions, be traded only with authorized agents (generally banks). Trade in gold coins is free. Controls on external trade The export and import of gold bu l l ion and/or more than 10 gold coins must be reported. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 275 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting obligations on exports and imports exceeding CZK 200,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. These accounts are perm i t ted but approval is required, w i th some exceptions. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely, and payments may be made from these accounts in the Czech Repub l ic or abroad w i thout restriction. Domestic currency accounts may be opened w i th commercial banks in koruny. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts can be made freely. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Foreign invoices may be settled only through bank transfers. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Yes. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as uranic ore and its con- centrates, coal, na tural gas, poisons, military materials, firearms and ammun i t ion, nar- cotics, and c lo th ing (exc lud ing imports from the EU and EFTA). In addition, an au toma t ic l icens ing system accompanied by levies applies to some agr icu l tural prod- ucts, m ine ral fuel and oils, iron and steel and the ir products, and some chemical produc ts. Imports of hard coal, lignite, u r an ium ore and its derivatives, and technological com- ponents con ta in ing u r a n i um are subject to licenses w i th quotas. Imports of apples from the EU in 1998 are subject to tar iff quotas of 6,000 tons each quarter. Quantity exceeding the tar iff quota is subject to a customs duty of 95%. All impor ts are subject to an ad va lorem customs du ty of up to 32.2% for indus t r ial goods and up to 168.1% for ag r icu l tu ral goods. Imports are also subject to a va lue- added tax of 5% or 22%. Imports from the Slovak Repub l ic are exempt from customs duties under a customs un ion. Imports from developing countries are granted preferences. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 CZECH REPUBLIC Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. The M in is try of Indus try and Trade, after approval by the M in i s t ry of Foreign A f fa i r s, the M in is try of Defense, and the M in is try of the Interior, grants export licenses for armaments. The M in is t ry of Culture grants export licenses for items of cultural/artistic value. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal market natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materials). For the two latter groups of products, neither quan t i ta t ive nor value l im i ts are in force. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Remittance of prof i ts and dividends is permitted once tax obligations have been met. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Repub l ic or the ir in troduc t ion on the do- mestic market is allowed only w i th a foreign exchange perm it from the CNB. The purchase of foreign securities by residents requires a foreign exchange pe rm it granted by the foreign exchange authorities, except in the fo l low ing cases: (1) A purchase w i th in the framework of a direct inves tmen t; (2) A purchase from the own account of a foreign exchange en t i ty h av ing a bank ing license w i th a required scope of ac t iv i t ies; (3) A purchase th rough a foreign exchange en t i ty h av ing a bank ing license w i th a required scope of ac t iv i t ies; (4) A purchase of foreign securities issued in the Czech Repub l ic or in troduced on the domestic market w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB (effec t ive from May 19, 1997); ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 277 (5) A purchase of employee shares and other f inanc ia l ly preferred shares issued by a nonresident, his or her domestic employees, or the domestic employees of a resident in whose enterprise the issuer has an ownersh ip participation; and (6) A purchase of foreign securities acquired from another resident pursuant to a sepa- rate act. Sale or issue abroad by residents The yield is subject to the transfer obligation. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or the ir introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Same conditions as for shares of a participating nature app ly. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are permitted if a participant in the transaction is a foreign ex- change en t i ty hav ing a license w i th a required scope of activities; otherwise, a CNB foreign exchange permit is required. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Repub l ic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their in troduc t ion on the do- mestic market is allowed on ly w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Act, the regulation includes only those derivatives whose assets are bu i lt up through f inanc ial measures in foreign currency, gold, and foreign securities. The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed on ly w i th a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents These transac t ions are permitted if a par t ic ipant in the transaction is a foreign ex- change entity hav ing a banking license w i th a required scope of activities; otherwise, a CNB foreign exchange perm it is required. Financial credits can be extended by residents to nonresidents only based on a foreign exchange perm it from the foreign exchange authorities. The fo l low ing operations are exceptions: (1) The credit is extended by a foreign exchange en t i ty hav ing a banking license w i th a required scope of ac t iv i t ies; (2) The extended credit is a direct inves tmen t; and (3) The credit is granted between na tu ral persons and is not intended for business ac t iv i t ies. A nonres iden t's ob l iga t ion can be secured on ly w i th a foreign exchange permit from foreign exchange au thor i t ies. However, there are exceptions when the guarantee is provided by a foreign exchange en t i ty h av ing a license w i th a required scope of ac t iv i t ies. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 CZECH REPUBLIC Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic can acquire real estate on ly in those cases specified by the Act: (1) By heritage; (2) For the d ip loma t ic representation of a foreign coun try under the terms of reciproc- i ty; (3) If it is real estate acquired in an unapportioned co-ownersh ip of a married couple of wh ich on ly one is a nonresident, or where a nonresident acquires property from a hu sband, w i fe, parents, or grandparents; (4) Through the exchange of domestic real estate that the nonres ident owns for other domestic real estate, the usual price of wh ich does not exceed the u su al price of the former real estate; (5) If the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned co-ownership of real estate; (6) If it is a construction bu i lt by a nonresident on his own land; and (7) Under the terms exp l ic i t ly stipulated by the Act on M i t ig a t ing the Consequences of Some Property Injustice. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. Lending locally in foreign exchange The range is determined by the bank ing license granted. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange The range is determined by the bank ing license granted. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Direct inves tmen ts are not regulated. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Both as a monetary regulation l im i t ing open short position vis-a-vis nonresidents and as a prudential regulation l im i t ing commercial banks' open positions in foreign currency. On nonresident assets and liabilities On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Yes. Inves tmen ts in an en t i ty cannot exceed 20% of its equ i ty. n.a. Yes. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The Securities Comm iss ions Act approved by Pa r l iament on Janua ry 13, 1998, wh i ch came into force on Ap r il 1, 1998, has removed most restrictions. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement May 27. The foreign exchange rate band was cancelled and a new exchange arrange- ment was introduced based on a managed f loa t ing system aimed at m a i n t a i n i ng the s tab i l i ty of the Czech koruna against the deutsche mark. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 279 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts April 9. Foreign exchange perm i ts were no longer required for foreign secur i t ies is- sued under section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Ac t, for the in troduc t ion of fore ign securities in the domestic market and nonpub l ic trad ing in the coun try. Capital transactions Other controls imposed by securities laws January 13. Parliament approved the Securities Commission Act. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Denmark participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the curren- cies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. Denmark maintains exchange restrictions against Iraq in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 661, and against Libya in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 833. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 281 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other country ou ts ide the EU that is not a state trad ing country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Ch ina, the Czech Repub l ic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russ ia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. They are required for impor ts of textiles, toys, and footwear. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Except for certain i tems subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of waste and scrap of certain metals. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 DENMARK Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are proh ib i ted, except in the case of acquisitions by: (1) Persons who have former ly been residents of Denmark for at least f ive years; (2) EU na t iona ls work ing in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) Non-EU na t iona ls who are either in possession of a va l id residence pe rm it or are entitled to stay in Denmark w i thout such a pe rm it for residential or active business purposes. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Currency The currency of D j ibou ti is the Djibouti franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The Djibouti franc is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $ 1. The off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 DJIBOUTI Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted up to a certain percentage of the value of imports. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, bu t, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax at rates ranging from 3% to 40%. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax of various rates. Addi- tional taxes are levied on imported milk products and f ru it ju ice. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 285 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition There is a matching requirement w i th respect to both the amount of the transaction and the intervention currency, and also with respect to ma tur i ty and interest rate. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar, issued by the Eastern Car- ibbean Central Bank (ECCB). Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those w i th member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. Dominica is a member of the CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries ou ts ide the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies but requires that any ind iv idu al foreign currency transaction in excess of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. The M in is t ry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. International security restrictions Trade w i th Iraq is proh ib i ted. Payment arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quan t i t ies of gold may be imported for indu s t r ial purposes on ly w i th the ap- proval of the MOF. The exportation of Eastern Caribbean dollar notes and coins outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly DOMINICA Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. 287 These accounts are norma l ly confined to major exporters and can only be credited w i th foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not requ ire approva l. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. For any single transaction in excess of EC$250,000, approval from the MOF is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a commercial bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports from Iraq are prohibited. Imports of specified goods originating elsewhere than OECS countries, Belize, and CARICOM countries require a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of CARICOM (Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. OGLs apply to public hea l th and safety goods. There are certain quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of beverages, flour, and marga- rine; quotas are allocated to trad i t ional importers based on the ir historical market shares. Dominica applies the CET of CARICOM. Most rates are ad valorem rang ing from zero to 35%. Lower rates apply to machinery (zero to 15%) and some essential food- s tu f fs (10% to 15%), wh i le higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1 % customs service charge. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Bulk imports of sugar and rice are effected by a state agency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 DOMINICA Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda tory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account into wh ich the proceeds may be paid. Documentation requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of protected plant and animal species to any destination. Yes. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between $0.55 and $0.60 a pound; if the export price exceeds $0.60 a pound, an additional levy equ iva lent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments In January 1997, commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign currency in amoun ts up to EC$250,000 except for remittances of pensions, fam i ly maintenance fund s, and subscriptions and membership fees, wh ich are not subject to controls. Amoun ts over th is l im it require approval by the MOF, wh ich is generally granted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments All ou tward transfers of capital in excess of EC$250,000 requ ire exchange control approval. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Approval is required for ind iv idual transac t ions in excess of EC$250,000. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase abroad by residents Approval is required for ind iv idu al transac t ions in excess of EC$250,000. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Approval is required for ind iv idu al transac t ions in excess of EC$250,000. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 289 Controls on credit operations Credit operations by residents to nonresidents require MOF approval. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Approval is required for ind iv idual transactions in excess of EC$250,000. Nonresidents are generally required to have an alien landholding license to hold shares in private and public companies and to hold property. Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Approval is required for ind iv idual transactions in excess of EC$250,000. Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Approval is required for ind iv idual transactions in excess of EC$250,000. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Approval is required for ind iv idual transactions in excess of EC$250,000. Transfer abroad by emigrants Approval is required for ind iv idual transactions in excess of EC$250,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad n.a. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) MOF approval is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange Generally not permitted, Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. No. No. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 31. Commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign exchange in accounts up to EC$250,000. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Repub l ic is the Dom in ican peso. There are two exchange rates: the o f f ic ial rate and the in te rbank rate. Since December 20, 1996, the off ic ial exchange rate had been adjusted weekly, based on the buy ing rate in the in terbank market, wh ich was determined by supply and de- mand. However, since March 1997, the official rate has remained fixed at RD$14.02 to the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of the Dominican Republic (CBDR) occasionally intervenes in the market. A commission of 1.5% is charged on sales of foreign exchange in both the in terbank market and the off ic ial market. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the LAIA. All paymen ts must be invoiced in U.S. dollars; otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents regarding the currency to be used for paymen ts to nonresidents or w i th respect to paymen ts in the currency in wh ich the loan is denominated. Yes. The Dominican Republic is a member of the LAIA. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements take place under the reciprocal credit agreements w i th Argentina and Venezuela. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CBDR. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Nearly all public sector debt-service payments that were in arrears have been regular- ized, though some arrears arising ma in ly from contract disputes remain. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 291 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes on ly. Residents (other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users) are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other form except jewe l ry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the CBDR. Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000. Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$ 100 in coins. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Na tural or ju r id ical persons may, w i th the prior approval of the Monetary Board, lo- cally ma in ta in savings or t ime deposit accounts in U.S. dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Domestic currency can readily be converted to foreign currency in a separate transaction. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Natural or juridical persons may, with the prior approval of the Monetary Board, lo- cally ma in ta in savings or time deposit accounts in U.S. dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for oil are transacted th rough the CBDR at the off ic ial exchange rate, and these imports require certification of the use of foreign currency for customs clear- ance. All other imports are transacted through the interbank market and are only sub- ject to ver if ica t ion of appropriate documen ta t ion, except for the indus t r ial free-trade zones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs The list includes mainly agricultural products. Imports of refined sugar require licenses. Most tar iff rates range from 5% to 35%, with certain imported luxu ry goods subject to an excise tax ranging from 5% to 80%. Duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nohtraditional products to be exported w i th in a year. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopoly The state ref inery has exclusive rights to import certain petroleum products for resale. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Financing requirements A 100% requirement applies to all t rad i t ional exports (i.e., cocoa, sugar, coffee, to- bacco, and mineral products). Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers w i th a ma tur i ty of more than 30 days from the date of shipment w i thout authorization from the CBDR. Documentation requirements Yes. Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Certain exports are proh ib i ted for env ironmen tal protection purposes. Licenses are required for preferential sugar exports, par t icu lar ly to the United States. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All inv is ib le payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documentation requirements. There are no controls on the use of credit cards abroad; the transfer of profits and dividends; or on paymen ts for pensions, gamb l ing and prize earnings, and fam i ly maintenance and a l imony. Quan t i ta t ive l im i ts apply to paymen ts for travel, medical costs, study abroad costs, and subscription and membership fees. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Technical assistance fees must be registered w i th the CBDR. Prior approval of the president of the Repub l ic is required for the h i r ing of Ha i t ian workers to harvest sugarcane. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements While most exchange proceeds from inv i s ib les may be sold in the in te rbank ma rke t, certain receipts (e.g., for in te rna t ional phone calls, in te rna t ional credit card transac- tions, jet fue l, foreign embassies' operations) mu st be surrendered to the CBDR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 293 Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities There are no restrictions on capital inflows to the private sector, but such investments must be registered w i th the CBDR. External debt contracted by the public sector is subject to controls. The local capital market is still emerging; shares and bonds are not yet traded. Only the primary market's own operations are effected, with commercial paper denominated in domestic currency. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. To residents from nonresidents Prior CBDR approval is required. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements External debt can be contracted directly by the central government, subject to con- gressional authorization. New loans by other public entities require au thor iza t ion from the president of the Republic for their subsequent registration by the Monetary Board. Private external debt must be registered w i th the CBDR, except for foreign exchange advances on fu tu re traditional exports, which require approval from the CBDR. Investments must be registered w i th the CBDR. Investment in the fo l low ing sectors is prohibited: (1) disposal of toxic waste and of dangerous or radioactive substances not produced in the country; (2) activities that affect public health and the env ironmen t; and (3) production of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. No. No. Yes. Banks authorized to offer services may grant loans in U.S. dollars to the sectors ex- por t ing goods and services to f inance ac t iv i t ies specific to their func t ions and to the importing sectors to cover payments abroad for the acquisition of goods and services. Foreign currency deposits taken by commercial and fu l l-serv ice banks are not subject to reserve requirements up to an amount in U.S. dollars equ iva lent to three times the bank 's capital and reserves, valued at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Funds taken in dollars ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' foreign exchange positions must be f u l ly covered. that exceed the above-mentioned amount w i ll be subject to a 20% reserve require- ment, to be deposited in dollars in a special account in the CBDR. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exports and export proceeds February 3. A single export documentation fo rm was introduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31 ,1970. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran sucre. There are two exchange rates: the free market rate and the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) off ic ial exchange rate. All legally permitted foreign exchange transactions, other than those conducted through the CBE, may be conducted in the free market. The market rate of the sucre against the U.S. dollar moves w i th in a band of about ±5% around the midpoint preannounced by the CBE; the midpoint is projected to depreci- ate at an annual rate of 21% in 1998. The official selling rate of the CBE is established weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free market of the previous week. The off ic ial buy ing rate of the CBE is set 2% lower than its selling rate. The CBE's selling rate is applied to all external payments of the public sector. On March 3, 1997, the CBE announced that it will maintain the market exchange rate w i th in a narrow band ("inner band"). The CBE uses foreign exchange auctions to determine whether the level of the inner band is appropriate. No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transac- tions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options, and transactions in other f inanc ial der iva t ive ins trumen ts, subject to the supervision and control of the Superin- tendency of Banks. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Exchange proceeds from all countries, except for LAIA members, must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import paymen ts must be made in the cur- rency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. There are arrangements w i th Cuba and Hungary. Payments between Ecuador and Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exc lus ive ly through the CBE. Exports must be registered w i th the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exportation, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 ECUADOR its derivatives may be carried out through the free market or through the CBE. Private sector foreign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Arrears are maintained w i th respect to public and publicly guaranteed debt-service payments to off ic ial and private creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Advance payment requirement Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. In addition, Petroecuador may, w i thout a license, import supplies, materials, and equ ipment du r ing emergencies. Negative list Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, and vehicle parts and pieces are prohibited primarily to protect the environment and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also prohibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs ECUADOR 297 Most goods are subject to import tar iff rates of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, or 35%. Auto- mobiles are subject to a 40% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. For certain agricultural goods, ta r i f fs are imposed on those w i th prices below a certain lower benchmark, and rebates are granted on goods w i th prices above an upper benchmark. Under provisions of the WTO, Ecuador has agreed to eliminate price bands of imports of 130 farm products over a seven-year period. All private sector imports are subject to the 10% value-added tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized f inanc ial entities. However, exporters may deduct up to 15% from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of consular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not app ly to exports effected under authorized barter transactions. The surrender re- qu irement also does not apply to exports to countries with wh ich Ecuador has bilateral payments agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official docu- mentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of paymen t. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. va lue of the ir shipments to cover the ac tual cost of leasing foreign ships. M in imum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, f ish products, cocoa, and sem if in- ished products of cocoa to he lp ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered w i t h in 30 days of the date of sh ipmen t. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Barter transac t ions requ ire the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade, Indus- t r ia l iza t ion, and Fisheries, and must be registered w i th the CBE. Exports do not require licenses but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, f i sh, and semifinished cocoa products are subject to m i n im um reference prices. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/. 0.5 a barrel. A fu r ther tax of $1.02 a barrel is applied to crude oil exported through the pipeline. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All pub l ic sector paymen ts for inv is ib les, inc lud ing interest on pub l ic debt, are trans- acted at the central bank rate. Other paymen ts for current inv is ib les must be settled in the free market. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts All receipts f rom inv is ib les must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on exchange reserves of the CBE and all inv is ib le receipts of the public sector, wh ich are transacted at the central bank rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 ECUADOR Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these ins trumen ts. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these ins trumen ts. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or off ic ial entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the Monetary Board. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the Monetary Board, accompanied by detailed informa t ion on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In exam in ing the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. New external credits w i th a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic f inanc ial system, must be registered w i th the CBE w i th in 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exchange arrangement March 3. The CBE announced that it w i ll ma in ta in the market exchange rate w i t h in a narrow band ("inner band"). Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure M u l t i p le Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. In addition to the market exchange rate, there is a special rate of LE 1.30 per $1 that is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement w i th Sudan, and a rate of LE 0.3913 per $ 1 that is used for the liquidation of m in imal balances related to terminated b i la teral paymen ts agreements. The external va lue of the Egyp t ian pound is determined in the foreign exchange mar- ket. The dollar is used as the intervention currency by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes, coins, and trave ler's checks) on the ir own account. These transactions may be conducted either in cash or th rough the ir accounts ma in ta ined w i th authorized banks in Egypt. In add i t ion, authorized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transac- tion, except transfers to and from the coun try, on the accounts of the ir bank or non- bank customers. As of Ju ly 1997, the CBE widened the spread between its buy ing and selling rates for foreign exchange to about 0.35% from 0.3%. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for the ir own account. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For countries w i th wh ich indemn i ty agreements concerning compensation for na- tionalized property are in force, certain settlements are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds w i th the CBE. The balances of these accounts are m in im a l. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by deb i t ing free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements w i th Sudan are made in accordance w i th the terms of the b i la t- eral agreement. There is an agreement w i th Sudan. There is an agreement w i th Russia to settle debts between Egypt and the Baltic coun- tries and the other countries of the FSU. The agreement, signed on November 10, 1994, has been operative since Ap r il 25, 1995. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions w i th in the framework of a general au tho r iza t ion w i thout ob ta in ing specific exchange control approval. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 EGYPT International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payment arrears There are limited technical payment arrears w i th certain non-Paris Club creditors. Off ic ial P r iva te Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or customers' accounts, in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On impor ts Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Travelers may take out up to LE 1,000. Persons arr iv ing in Egypt may import up to LE 1,000. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Balances can be converted through the foreign exchange market. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited w i th transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, w i thdrawa ls in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 301 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Most items can be imported freely. As of Ju ly 1997, products are classified into seven groups for customs purposes, w i th tar iff rates ranging from 5% to 50% (w i th several exceptions). Surcharges at rates of 2% and 3% apply to most imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held inde f in i te ly abroad or in local free accounts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions under the Foreign Exchange Law and Regulations on the issue of securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in securities denominated in foreign currencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange market may be used for transferring proceeds associated w i th the sale of both Egyptian secu- rities and foreign securities. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Prior approval of the Capital Market Au tho r i ty is required for issu ing bonds. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Derivatives do not ex ist in the Egyptian market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 EGYPT Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts No restrictions are applied if the ma tu r i ty of the commercial credits is one year or less or if these credits are received by the private sector. M in is t r ies, governmen tal a dm i n i- strations, pub l ic au thor i t ies, and pub l ic sector companies are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than one year. If external loans are used to f inance cap i tal goods or projects, such a transaction fa l ls under the state inves tment p lan. There are no general restrictions, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. No restrictions are imposed under Law No. 8 (1997). Yes. Yes. No. Deposits in foreign currencies held by either nationals or foreign nationals are subject to a 10% requ irement (the interest-free reserve ratio requirement of deposits in Egyptian pounds is 15%), wh ich must be deposited w i th the CBE at LIBOR. The requirement for assets in foreign currencies is 25%, and 20% for assets in Egyptian pounds. All banks operating in Egypt (except branches of foreign banks) are proh ib i ted from depos i t ing or hav ing inves tment securities worth more than 40% of the ir cap i tal base or 10% of the ir total inve s tment abroad, wh ichever is lower, w i th a foreign correspon- dent bank. According to the Banking Law, all banks operating in Egypt are proh ib i ted from own ing shares exceeding 40% of issued capital in jo int stock companies, locally or abroad. In add i t ion, the face va lue of the shares owned by the bank in these com- panies may not exceed the va lue of the bank 's issued capital and reserves. Shareholdings by residents or nonresidents in any bank in Egypt that exceed 10% of the b ank 's capital require prior approval from the CBE Board of Directors. The l im i ts are (1) for each currency (local or foreign): 10% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capi- ta l; (2) for to tal long or short positions: 20% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; and (3) total foreign assets to total foreign liabilities, or vice versa, not to exceed 105%. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non res iden ts and on po r t fo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested loca l ly Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 303 Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments July 31. The spread between the CBE buy ing and selling exchange rates was widened to 0.35% from 0.3%. July L Tariff rates were set between 5% and 50% (previously 55%) and surcharges between 2% and 3% (previously 4%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 6, 1946. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran colon. Gold coins in denominations of C 25, C 50, C 100, C 200, and C 2,500 are legal ten- der, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating The Central Reserve Bank (CRB) publishes the daily exchange rates, wh ich are ap- plied to its transactions w i th the public sector, and the calculation of tax obligations. These exchange rates are the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses on the previous working day. Since January 1, 1994, the CRB has intervened in the foreign exchange market to ma in ta in the exchange rate at C 8.75 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. El Salvador is a member of the CACM. The CRB adm in is ters exchange regulations. All private sector foreign exchange trans- actions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centre de Tramites de Exportation (CENTREX) issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues perm i ts freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 305 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make payments abroad w i thout restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are not restricted, but the commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the CRB on the use of such accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, propane and butane gas, cloth and ju te sacks, sugar, and molasses. Most import tariffs range up to 20%, although some products, such as automobiles, alcoholic beverages, textiles, and luxu ry goods, are subject to an import tariff of 30%. There are no tar iffs on capital goods and selected inpu ts. Exporters of non trad i t ional products to markets outside Central America receive du ty drawbacks on imported raw materials equivalent to 6% of f.o.b. value of exports. On January 1, 1997, a du ty- reduction program was announced that would reduce dur ing 1998 duties on consumer goods to 17% and those on intermediate goods to between 7% and 12%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. All exports must be registered, w i th the exception of exports amoun t ing to less than $5,000, unless the product specifications call for such certification. Export permits, issued by the M in is t ry of Finance, are required for diesel fue l, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 W i thout quotas Export taxes EL SALVADOR Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Foreign direct investments and inf lows of capital w i th a maturity of more than one year must be registered w i th the M in is t ry of the Economy but are not restricted. Cer- tain m in imum capital requirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resident shareholders. No. No. No. External borrowing by f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10%. The CBS does not remunerate reserves on short-term financial system external borrowing. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks was reduced to 10% of capital on May 1, 1997. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. A duty-reduction program was announced envisaging a reduction du r ing 1998 of duties on consumer goods to 17% and of those on in termed ia te goods to be- tween 7% and 12%.- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions EL SALVADOR so? February 21. The CRB e l im ina ted the remuneration of legal reserves. , ^, ,. . „ . . . ,, , May 1. The l im it on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks was reduced to 10% of cap i ta l. May 1. Reserve requirements on all deposits, inc lud ing in foreign exchange, and on short-term f inanc ial system external borrowing may be partially held in authorized central bank securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA franc, issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25% is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except for transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a du ly issued license domiciled w i th a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the government and its agencies for official missions, and paymen ts of insurance premiums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (DNCC) of the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). Exchange transac t ions re la t ing to all countries must be effected through authorized banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Yes. Yes. n.a. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 309 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no indus tr ial users in Equatorial Guinea. New ly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports of gold are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the MOF; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con ta in ing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 million; amounts in ex- cess of this limit may be taken out in other means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of for- eign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Domestically held accounts in foreign currency are not allowed. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Accounts in foreign currency include accounts in dollars. Approval is required except for accounts in French francs. Accounts in French francs are treated identically to accounts in domestic currency. Because the BEAC suspended in 1993 the repurchase of its banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 EQUATORIAL GUINEA correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Approval is required. Convertible in to foreign currency Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Certified bank documents are required. M in imum f inanc ing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements All import transactions of wh ich the va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000 must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents invo lv ing goods for use outside Equatorial Gu inea must be domiciled w i th a bank in the coun try of f in al destination. Letters of credit "Credito documentario" is required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No import licences are required, except for gold. Negative list Certain goods are prohibited for security, health, or safety reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Equatorial Guinea applies the common du ty rates of the UDEAC on imports from nonmembers (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxu ry goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated w i t h in 30 days of the pay- ment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made w i th in 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. No. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to dom ic i l ia t ion requirements for the appropriate documents. No. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 311 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Fre igh t / insurance Quantitative limits Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the MOF. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of p ro f i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also perm i t ted freely when the basic trans- action has been approved. Except in the case of expa tr ia tes wo rk ing in Equa tor ial Gu inea on a temporary bas is, paymen ts of insurance p r em iums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are per- mitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the DNCC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The t rans fer of ren tal income from real property owned in Equatorial Gu inea by for- eign na t iona ls is permitted up to 50% of the income declared for taxa t ion purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. Yes. n.a. Yes. Residents trave l ing for tour ism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amoun ts in ex- cess of th is l im it may be taken out in other means of paymen t. The allowances for travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone are subject to the fo l low ing regu la t ions: (1) for tourist trave l, CFAF 100,000 a day, up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion a t r ip; (2) for bus i- ness trave l, CFAF 250,000 a day, up to CFAF 5 m i l l ion a t r ip; and (3) allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the au tho r iza t ion of the MOF or, by delegation, the BEAC. Re tu rn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender w i t h in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in wr i t ing all means of payment at the ir dis- posal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the non- resident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been pur- chased w i th f u n ds d rawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or w i th other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad The l im it is determined as a func t ion of the sa lary. The use of credit cards, wh ich mu st be issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries and approved by the MOF, is limited to the ceilings for tour ist and business trave l. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other coun tr ies in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets mu st be collected w i t h in a mon th of the due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Surrender requirements Proceeds earned in countries outside the franc zone must be surrendered w i th in a mon th of collection if received in foreign currency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition EQUATORIAL GUINEA 313 Yes. Yes. A bona fide test is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency A national currency, the Eritrean nak fa, was introduced between November 8 and 22, 1997; du r ing th is conversion period, the nak fa was exchanged at par w i th the Ethio- p ian birr. The b i rr ceased to be legal tender as of November 22, 1997. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Through March 1997, the o f f ic ial exchange rate of Eritrea was the ma rg inal auc t ion exchange rate of the birr, determined in the weekly foreign exchange auction con- ducted by the Na t ional Bank of Ethiopia. On Apr il 1, 1997, the off ic ial and preferen- tial exchange rates were un i f ied at Br 7.2 per $1. The exchange rate of the nak fa is market determined. Its exchange rate at end-December was ERN 7.28 per $1. The Bank of Eritrea (BE) prescribes a commission of 0.25% for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.75% for sales of foreign exchange, except for banknote transactions. The authorized dealers are permitted, but not required, to levy a service charge of up to 0.25% for b u y i ng and 0.75% for selling for the ir own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements C lear ing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since November 22, 1997, all transactions w i th Ethiopia are settled in conver t ib le currencies, except for border trade valued at below Br 2,000. Prior to tha t, all transac- t ions w i th Ethiopia, except those related to the impor ts of spare parts for the ref inery in Assab and the purchase of certain Ethiopian exports, were settled in b i r r. Eritrea is a member of the COMESA. Payments between Eritrea and Angola, Bu rund i, Comoros, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Ma law i, Maur i t ius, Mozamb ique, Nam ib ia, Rwanda, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe may be made w i th in the framework of the COMESA. The BE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers and issues dealers' licenses. It may from time to t ime issue regu la t ions, directives, and instruc- t ions on foreign exchange matters. The Exchange Control Department of the BE is- sues permits only for those imports that require foreign exchange from the banking system. The Na t ional Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents, and the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry regulates foreign inves t- ments. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 315 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Authorization from the Ministry of Energy and Mines is required for ownership or possession of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewe l ry w i thout restrictions. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are (1) not required to declare the ir foreign currency ho ld ings upon en try in to Eritrea; (2) not required to declare the ir foreign currency ho ld ings upon depar- tu re; and (3) allowed to reconvert the ir balances in to foreign currencies upon depar ture. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Only investors and ind iv idua ls earn ing foreign exchange in connection w i th foreign trade are allowed to open accounts. Nonbank residents may not open accounts abroad, un less spec if ica l ly authorized by the BE. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Eritreans work ing temporar i ly abroad may ma in ta in nonresident dollar ac- counts in Eritrea, but BE approval is required. Ava i lab le on ly to members of the d ip loma t ic commun i ty, welfare organizations, non- governmental organizations and the ir personnel, as well as jo int ventures and other bus iness f i rms that invest the ir capital, who l ly or par t ia l ly, in foreign exchange. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Most imports financed w i th official foreign exchange are effected under LCs or on a cash-against-documents basis. Suppliers' credits must be registered with the BE. Advance import deposits Deposits are required on ly for LC-type impor ts. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Supp l iers' credits mu st be registered w i th the BE. Import payments made through the banking system require a permit issued by the BE upon presentation of pro forma invoices prov id ing information as to type, quan t i ty, un it price, and f re ight cost (where applicable). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 ERITREA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs All importers must have a valid trade license issued by the National Licensing Office. These licenses must be renewed each year at a fee of ERN 200. Imports of cars and other motor vehicles require prior permission from the M in is try of Transportation. Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 2% is collected on imports that do not require off ic ial foreign ex- change and are not aid funded (franco valuta imports). State import monopoly The company that produces tobacco and matches holds the monopoly over the impor- tation of these products. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days of sh ipmen t; where ju s t i f i ed, th is deadline can be extended by another 90 days. No. Exports may be made under LCs on an advance-payment basis or on a consignment basis. All exports require documentation by the BE. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particu- lar, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the M in is try of Marine Resources. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. The annual licensing fee is ERN 200. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Payments for fre ight and insurance, un lo ad ing and storage costs, adm in i s t r a t ive ex- penses, commissions, subscr ip t ions and membersh ip fees, con su l t ing and legal fees, and interest require prior approva l. Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval For business trips, the allowance is $250 a person a day for up to 30 days a trip. Ex- porters may use freely their retention balances for travel purposes. For personal trave l, the allowance is $100 a person (adult or m inor) a trip. Eritrean na t iona ls can purchase air travel tickets in local and foreign currency. Recommenda t ion of the Medical Board of the M in i s t ry of Hea l th is required. The l im it is $10,000 for trea tment abroad, other th an in E th iop ia. The l im it may be exceeded in special circumstances. Approval is granted for h igher education expenses on ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 317 Gambling/prize earnings Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale'or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities w i th the approval of the BE. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Foreign borrowing by residents must be registered w i th the BE. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad w i th the approval of the BE. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inves tment n .a. n.a. Foreign direct inves tment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and wholesale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity w i th the country of the in- vestor; th is latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved inves tmen ts and the ir subsequent expansion are exempted from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated w i th the inves tmen t. There are no exemp t ions from income tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 ERITREA Controls on liquidation of direct investment For inves tmen ts certified under the Inves tment Proclamation No. 59 (1994), foreign investors may freely remit proceeds received from the l iqu ida t ion of investment and/or expansion, and paymen ts received from the sale or transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to prior approval of the BE. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement April L The preferential and official exchange rates were unified. Changes During 1997 November 8. A national currency, the nakfa, was introduced between November 8 and 22, 1997; dur ing th is conversion period, the nakfa was exchanged at par w i th the Ethiopian birr. The birr ceased to be legal tender as of November 22, 1997. The ex- change rate of the nakfa is market determined. Arrangements for payments and receipts November 22. All transactions w i th Ethiopia are to be settled in convertible curren- cies, except for border trade valued at below Br 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 15, 1994. Currency The currency of Estonia is the Estonian kroon. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the deutsche mark at the rate of EEK 8 per DM 1. Kroon banknotes and commercial banks' reserve deposits w i th the Bank of Estonia (BOE) are exchanged by the BOE for deutsche mark and vice versa at th is rate. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely effected by commercial banks who may freely quote their own exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU can be effected through a system of correspondent accounts ma in ta ined by the BOE w i th the respective central banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may in most cases be used freely by their holders to purchase either goods or services in the coun try con- cerned. In operating these accounts, the BOE acts as an intermediary only and does not convert any balances to krooni. Kroon balances held by the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU in their correspondent accounts are f u l ly convertible w i thout delay. These agreements also allow for separate decentralized payment arrangements between commercial banks in the respective countries but do not provide for swing credits or overdraft facilities. Commercial banks in Estonia are permitted and encouraged to open their own correspondent ac- counts w i th commercial banks in the Ba l t ic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU. At the beg inn ing of 1997, Estonia had b i la teral agreements w i th Armen ia, Azerba i jan, Belarus, Kazakhs tan, Ky rgyz Republic, Latvia, L i thuan ia, Moldova, Russ ia, Ta j ik i- stan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Some accounts w i th a number of countries that inc lude the Baltic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU are inoperative. n.a. n .a. n.a. The BOE issues and enforces foreign exchange regulations. The M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) controls and monitors imports and exports, and licenses gold trad ing. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 ESTONIA International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Some external debt issues w i th Russ ia and certain other countries of the FSU are not yet settled. Official All external debt w i th Russia is off ic ia l. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Domestic trade in gold is subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. International trade in gold is subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. There is a limit of 20 a person on exports of the one-kroon coin. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Customs duties are levied on fu r, fur goods, launches, yach ts, and motorized water skis. Imports are also sub ject to a state du ty and a VAT of 18%, wh ich is also levied on domestically produced goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 321 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for metals, spirits, tobacco and tobacco goods, drugs, cars, weapons, ammun i t ion, explosives, fue l, motor oil, and lottery tickets. The MOF collects a specific fee in line w i th WTO principles to cover the cost of ad- ministrative processing, and an export duty of 100% is levied on items of cu l tural value. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Subject to approval by the mun ic ipa l i ty concerned, Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements n.a. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Net liabilities to foreign credit ins t i tu t ions are subject to a reserve requirement but liabilities to domestic credit institutions are not. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 ESTONIA Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n .a. n.a. n.a. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions July 1. Net l iab i l i t ies to foreign credit in s t i tu t ions were subjected to a reserve requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of E th iop ia is the E th iop ian birr. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax The off ic ial exchange rate of the birr against the dollar is the marginal rate (i.e., the lowest successful bid) determined in weekly auctions for announced quantities of foreign exchange, as determined by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). Au thor ized dealers must observe a prescribed commission of 0.5% on buy ing and 1.5% on selling, wh ich accrues to the NBE, and they may levy service charges of up to 0.25% on buy ing and 0.75% on selling for the ir own accounts. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Since November 22, 1997, all transactions w i th Eritrea have been settled in foreign currencies. Ethiopia is a member of the COMESA. Payments may be made w i t h in the framework of the COMESA. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through authorized dealers un- der the control of the NBE. The Exchange Controller of the NBE issues exchange licenses for all exports and payments abroad and issues permits for all shipments. The M in is t ry of Trade fo rmu la tes external trade policy. Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownersh ip of personal jewe lry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the M in is t ry of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or gold or p la t inum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permitted. New ly mined gold is sold by the E th iop ian Mineral Resources De- velopment Corporation to the NBE. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may take out Br 10 in E th iop ian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign exchange. Reconversion of b irr to foreign exchange must be supported by documen- tary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency ETHIOPIA Travelers may br ing in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Travelers must declare any foreign currency in their possession when entering Ethiopia. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Exporters and recipients of remittances are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts w i th prior approval of the NBE, but can- not use the funds to acquire shares, stocks, bonds, or any other security denom ina ted in foreign exchange w i thout the prior approval of the NBE. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but exporters must have the NBE 's approval. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign exchange. Balances may be trans- ferred freely abroad, and transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplomatic commun i ty must use transferab le or nontransfer- able birr accounts for payment of local expenses. Jo int ventures and ind iv idual foreign investors are permitted to open foreign currency accounts or transferab le or non trans- ferab le birr accounts to purchase raw materials, equ ipmen t, and spare parts not ava i l- able in Ethiopia. Once documentary evidence of the entry of the goods purchased w i th such funds is submitted to the Exchange Control Department of the NBE, funds from these accounts may be freed. E th iop ian nonresidents can ma in ta in interest-bearing accounts, but non-Ethiopians may hold only current accounts. Approval from the Ex- change Control Department of the NBE is required to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 ar is ing from d is inves tmen ts in Ethiopia. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Imports of goods on the negative l ist (i.e., used clothing) are ine l ig ib le for the foreign exchange auctions. Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and in termed i- ate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and mach inery and transport equ ipmen t. Paymen ts by LC, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash-against-documents at s ight are no rma l ly accepted, but the NBE must be consulted regarding impo r ts on a cash-aga ins t- documents basis. M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Only 2% of an auc t ion bid amount mu st be paid before an app l icant can pa r t ic ipa te in the NBE auc t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list ETHIOPIA 325 If an importer is successful, an LC is opened by a commercial bank after he or she pays a margin. Foreign exchange is freed once the LC is negotiatied. Final invoices that separately show f.o.b. cost and freight charges and nonnegotiable bills of lading are required. Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid impor ter's license is presented. Ap- plications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by informa t ion on costs and payment terms and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged w i th the E th iop ian Insurance Corporation. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. The list includes used clothing and items restricted for reasons of health and security. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the M in i s t ry of Transport and Communications. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements N ine ty percent of the net proceeds from exports must be surrendered in freely con- vertible currencies or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters must prove to the NBE that they have repatriated 100% of previous ex- ports before being allowed to export again. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quo tas Export taxes All exports are licensed through the Exchange Controller of the NBE, and all ship- ments require a perm it from that office; some commodities also require approval from specific government bodies. Exports of raw hides and skins are regulated or prohibited un t il the needs of local factories are met. The exportation of coffee is subject to a coffee export du ty at the rate of Br 15 a qu in- ta l, a coffee export cess at the rate of Br 5 a qu in ta l, and a coffee surtax. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les require exchange licenses and approval, except for the use of credit cards abroad. Fre igh t / insurance Insurance companies may remit prem iums on insurance policies purchased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 ETHIOPIA Quantitative limits Unloading/storage costs Inv is ib les connected w i th trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to wh ich they relate. Indicative limits/bona fide test Ver if ica t ion of documentary evidence is required. Adm in is t ra t ive expenses Indicative limits/bona fide test Ver if ica t ion of documen tary evidence is required. Commissions Quantitative limits Ver if ica t ion by the NBE of contractual agreement between parties is requ i red. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Quantitative limits Ver if ica t ion by the NBE of con t rac tual agreement between parties is requ ired. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Af ter pay ing local taxes, foreign companies may rem it d iv idends on the ir invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Indicative limits/bona fide test These are subject to an assessment based on the NBE 's determined cr i ter ia. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Approval is required ma in ly for government transactions made th rough the M in i s t ry of Finance. Persons t rave l ing abroad for business purposes related to impor ts or exports are granted foreign exchange up to $10,000 a year. For other business t rave l, the l im i ts for tour ism are applied. Tourists 18 years of age or older are allowed up to $300 a t r ip. For government trave l, the allowance varies by coun try, type of currency, and cost of l iv ing. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Verification by a medical board and the M in is t ry of Health is required. For the f i rst medical tr ip, the l im it is $10,000. For the second medical t r ip, the l im it is based on actual medical cost. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees The l im it is $2,000 a year for a pr iva te student. Foreign na t iona ls who are not entitled to remittance fac i l i t ies may, however, rem it up to 30% of the ir net earnings for the education of the ir children. Government-sponsored students are granted foreign exchange up to the requirement of the employer. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentation is required from the overseas in s t i tu t ion. Consulting/legal fees Indicative limits/bona fide test The NBE 's ver if ica t ion of contractual agreements between the parties is requ ired, and applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits ETHIOPIA 327 Foreign contractual employees of the government can take out foreign exchange not to exceed their earnings during the terms of their service and upon f inal departure. How- ever, the value of fees, accommodations, gratuities, accumulated leave pay, and simi- lar benefits may not be included for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out the same amount on f inal departure, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign employees of embassies, legations, consulates, and international organizations whose salaries are fu l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside Ethiopia can take out and/or transfer their net earnings to the extent of the balances in their non- resident foreign currency accounts, nonresident transferab le birr accounts, and/or nontransferable birr accounts. Pensions Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of financial emolument and domicile are required from employees. Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits These transactions are not allowed. Up to 100% of th is obligation is allowed, provided the ind iv idual is entitled to make salaried remittances. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Fifty percent of proceeds must be surrendered on sight; 40% should be surrendered after 21 days; and 10% is allowed to be retained indef in i te ly. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective inves tment securities There is no market in these ins trumen ts. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There is no market in these ins trumen ts. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Banks need prior approval from the NBE to overdraw their accounts w i th foreign correspondents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency. These ins trumen ts are not available. Foreign investors may hold up to 100% of the shares in any venture, except the bank- ing, insurance, and transport sectors, including trading above a certain l im i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 ETHIOPIA Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investment in telecommunications, generation of electric power, and the defense in- dustry is allowed. All investments must be approved and certified by the Ethiopian Investment Authority (EIA). A m in imum of 25% of share capital must be paid before registration. Invest- ments are allowed in areas of agriculture, livestock and crop production, manufactur- ing, mining, construction, real estate, machinery leasing, social services, education, health, engineering services, technology-intensive industries, pharmaceutical and fer- tilizer production, and hotel and tourism. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to f ive years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of inves tment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. Authorization by the EIA is required for repatriation of capital; registration of capital in f lows w i th the EIA establishes the evidence of inf lows that is required for au thor i- zation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on pre- sentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign investors w i th nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on l iqu ida t ion and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Funds in excess of th is amount must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to jo int ventures established under Council of State Proclamation No. 37 of May 25, 1992. All foreign investors may also transfer abroad in convertible currency paymen ts for debts, fees, or royalties in respect of technology t rans fer agreements. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All Ethiopian passport holders can purchase real estate in Ethiopia. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents- These transactions are not allowed. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Liquidated property is held in a blocked account and up to Br 40,000 may be remitted annua l ly. Yes. Banks may not borrow from, or enter in to a guarantee agreement w i th, banks abroad unless authorized by the NBE. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may ma in ta in nostro accounts w i th the ir correspondents. Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic banks may grant personal loans to staff members of in te rna t ional in s t i tu t ion s. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange Banks may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currencies w i thout the per- mission of the NBE. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 329 Interest rate controls Up to 10% interest may be g iven to non -E th iop ian deposit account holders. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls All nonresident accounts take the form of demand deposits for wh ich no interest is paid. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Ethiopia was reclassified to "managed floating" from "independently floating." November 22. All transactions w i th Eritrea are to be settled in foreign currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4, 1972. Currency The currency of Fiji is the Fiji dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the Fiji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the Aus tra l ian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) on the basis of quo ta t ions for the U.S. dollar and other currencies inc luded in the basket. No. No. Forward exchange facilites are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exports and n ine mon ths for imports, up to a ratio of their capital. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts A l though no specific requ iremen ts exist, settlements must be made in conver t ib le currencies acceptable to both countries. Bilateral payment arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the RBF acting as an agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve current paymen ts and transfers up to the f u ll amoun t, except for advance paymen ts for imports. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins but not gold b u l l i o n. The exportation of gold coins, except coins and collectors' pieces for num i sm a t ic purposes, requires specific permission from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license from the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF); these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bu l l ion are exempt from fiscal du ty but are subject to a 10% VAT. Gold jewe lry is 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 331 also exempt from fiscal du ty but subject to a 10% VAT and is not under l icens ing control. Samples of gold and gold jewe lry sent by foreign manufac turers require im- port licenses if the ir va lue exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewe l ry are free of export du ty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$ 1,000. Exports of gold bu l l ion are subject to an export du ty of 3%. Exports are allowed up to F$500 a t r ip for travel-related purposes on ly. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the t ime of a r r iva l. Local trave lers are allowed up to a F$5,000 cash equ iva lent in foreign currency ( inc lus ive of a max i- mum of F$500 in local currency) for each overseas tr ip. Travelers may br ing in freely Fiji banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration officials on arrival. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to customs or imm igra t ion off ic ia ls on arr ival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts App l icab le to resident ind iv idu a ls and any bus iness en t i ty registered and operating in Fiji. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are perm i t ted, but prior approval is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. These accounts may be credited freely w i th the account holders' salaries (net of tax), w i th interest payable on the account, or with payments from other external accounts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th the account holders' salaries (net of tax); w i th interest payable on the account; w i th paymen ts from other external accounts; w i th the proceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder; and w i th Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji, or acquired by debit to an external account, or acquired through the sale of foreign currency in the coun try during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for wh ich either general or specific au thor i ty has been given. External ac- counts may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, paymen ts in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Prior approval is required. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 FIJI Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements n.a. Advance payment requirement Effec t ive January 1, 1998, authorized banks may approve advance paymen ts for im- ports of up to F$500,000 an application w i thout specific approval from the RBF, if such payments are required by the supplier. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Imports of pou l t ry and pou l try products and lubrication oils from any source require a specific import license. The M in is try of Commerce and Indus t ry is responsible for issu ing import licenses, w i th the exception of those for gold and timber. Import li- censes and other non ta r i ff measures for gold are issued by the MOF; for t imber, they are issued by the M in i s t ry of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by na t ional cooperative societies under a jo int arrangement w i th six other Pacific Is- land countries. The import license for cyclonic bu i ld ing materials is jo in t ly issued by the Department of Fair Trading and Consumer A f fa i rs and the MOF. The impor ta t ion of a few commodities is prohibited for security, hea l th, or pub l ic policy reasons. Import licenses for frozen chicken f rom the United States are issued on a quo ta basis. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expi- ration date requ iremen ts. All ag r icu l tu ral and forestry products are subject to quaran- t ine clearance. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import ta r i f fs range from 5% to 22.5%. A 10% VAT is also levied, Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly n.a. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports w i t h in six mon ths of the date of sh ipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, w i thout specific perm iss ion, grant more than six mon ths' credit to a nonresident buyer. On J anu a ry 1, 1997, the delegated l im it for Customs to process and approve export of goods w i th no monetary return expected was increased to F$50,000. Un t il end-December 1997, exporters could re ta in, w i th pr ior approval of the RBF, up to 20% of export proceeds in fore ign currency accounts ma in ta ined w i th an au thor ized dealer or a foreign bank abroad; the rate of retention from each export receipt is not subject to control. On J anu a ry 1, 1998, the export re ten t ion l im it was raised to 25%. Export licenses are issued by va r ious government depar tmen ts and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. Specific licenses are required on ly for exports of sugar, wheat b ran, copra meal, certain types of lumbe r, cer ta in a n im a l s, and a few other items. The M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry is responsible for issu ing export li- cense for trochus shells. Irrespec t ive of expor t- l icens ing requ i remen t s, howeve r, ex- porters are required to produce an export pe rm it for the commerc ial con s ignment of all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 333 goods w i th an f.o.b. va lue of more than F$l ,000; th is perm it is required for exchange control purposes. n.a. n.a. A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar, gold, and s i lver. Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Quantitative limits Interest paymen ts Prior approval Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Quantitative limits Payments for travel Prior approval Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Controls are mostly in the form of documen ta t ion requ iremen ts. Most paymen ts have been f u l ly delegated to au thor ized banks w i thout any restrictions or l im i t s. On Janua ry 1, 1998, ceilings were relaxed for prof i ts and d iv idends, subscriptions and membership fees, foreign workers' wages, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly ma in- tenance and a l imony, and credit card use abroad. All paymen ts and transfers are sub- ject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. The l im it is F$ 100,000 an app l ica t ion. Prior approval is not required, provided specific pr ior approval for the loan was granted by the RBF. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain permission from the RBF to t rans fer d iv i- dends abroad. U n t il end-December 1997, remittance of the current yea r 's p ro f i ts and four years' retained earn ings that have not p rev ious ly been remitted was a l lowed. On J anu a ry 1, 1998, the l im it of the current year plus four years' retained earnings was raised to the current year p lus f ive years. In the case of em igran ts, u n t il end-December 1997 these were allowed to t rans fe r, after one year abroad, the f u ll amount of the cu r rent yea r 's d iv idends or p ro f i ts earned on assets left in Fiji. On Janua ry 1, 1998, the ce i l ing on the emigration allowance was relaxed. Yes. U n t il end-1997, app roval was required for amoun ts above F$8,000 a tr ip. No approval is required, prov ided that payment is made directly to the in s t i tu t ion. On Janua ry 1, 1998, res tr ic t ions on the party to whom paymen ts could be made was amended to inc lude the pa t ien t. Foreign exchange provided is restricted to amoun ts due. The use of credit cards for travel-related expenses is not restricted, except for a F$5,000 l im it on the ir use for shopp ing on each t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test In addition to qu an t i t a t ive l im i t s, F$500 a mon th may be w i thd r awn in cash. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 Surrender requ i remen ts FIJI Residents are required to sell all the ir foreign currency receipts to an authorized dealer w i t h in one mon th of the ir re turn. Receipts of interest, d iv idend s, and amo r t iza t ion must be surrendered s em i annu a l ly un less reinvested abroad and reported to the RBF. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Prior approval by the RBF is required for all capital and money market transac t ions and transac t ions in collective inv e s tm ent securities. Capital Transactions On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Comme rc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents On Janua ry 1, 1998, a new fac i l i ty was in troduced for locally incorporated compan ies to allow for inves tmen ts of up to F$500,000 a company up to an overall na t ional ceil- ing of F$5 m i l l ion to buy shares in companies offshore. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents mu st ob ta in prior permission from the RBF to borrow foreign currency abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. On Janua ry 1, 1998, the l im it on bank guarantees was raised to F$500,000 from F$200,000 for a nonresident-controlled business en t i ty or nonresident ind iv idual w i th respect to any local dealing. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inv e s tm ent Inw a rd direct inv e s tm ent Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 1998, ( 1) nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may invest up to F$40 m i l l ion in 1998; (2) the l im it on overseas inves tment for ind iv idu a ls and fam i l ies was increased to F$15,000 a f am i ly, up to an overall ceiling of F$10 m i l l i o n; and (3) the l im it on expend i ture to set up sales offices or subsidies abroad by local companies was increased to F$500,000 a subsidiary. Foreign inves tment in Fiji is no rma l ly expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign inves tment may be given "approved status," wh ich guarantees the r ight to repatriate dividends and capital. Such transactions require specific permission from the RBF, wh ich is readily granted upon evidence that the inves tment funds originated offshore. Nonres iden t-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in f u ll the proceeds from sales of assets and cap i tal ga ins on inves tmen ts of up to F$15 m i l l ion a year. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 335 Approval by the M in is t ry of Land is required for purchases of state-owned property. Settlements require RBF approval to ensure proceeds are received in Fiji and that funds originated from abroad. Controls on settlements are effected to safeguard local interests before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents On January 1, 1998, the ceiling on these transactions was relaxed. Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. On Janua ry 1, 1997, the in i t ial lump sum emigration allowance was increased to F$250,000 an app l ican t, and up to F$50,000 every six mon ths thereafter. Borrow ing abroad Au thor ized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Un t il end-December 1997, authorized dealers were permited to lend up to F$200,000 to a new ly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled d irec t ly or ind irec t ly by persons who reside outside Fiji, and up to F$30,000 to ind iv idu al nonresident customers. Ind iv idual nonresident borrowers must repay their loans before leaving Fiji. Any amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts require prior approval from the RBF. On Janua ry 1, 1998, the above l im i ts were raised to F$500,000 for non res ident compan ies and F$50,000 for nonres ident ind iv idu a l s. Lending locally in foreign exchange The banks and nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji w i thout the specific permission of the RBF. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Yes. An ind iv idu al can (together w i th his or her relatives) own up to 15% of the voting shares of a bank or credit ins t i tu t ion. Ownership through a company may be up to 30%. This does not preclude the es tab l ishment of branches or subsidiaries incorpo- rated in Fiji of 100% nonresident-controlled f inanc ial institutions. On Janua ry 1, 1997, net open position l im i ts in terms of each b a n k 's actual capital were set at 12.5% and 20% for a single currency and overall foreign currency, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad Yes. L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad The l im it for 1998 is F$40 m i l l ion, of wh ich nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are permitted to place F$10 m i l l ion offshore, and the Fiji Na t ional Provident may place F$30 m i l l ion (from F$25 m i l l ion in 1997). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 FIJI L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. n.a. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Changes During 1997 January 1. Delegated l im it on bank guarantees approved by commercial banks was increased to F$200,000. January 1. Nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions were permitted up to F$25 m i l l ion in in- vestments in foreign-currency-denominated securities, wh i le por tfo l io inves tment was increased to F$ 10,000 a fam i ly a year, up to an overall ceiling of F$10 m i l l ion. Controls on personal capital movements January 1. The delegated limit for commercial banks was increased to F$2,500 an applicant a year for gifts. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions January 1. Net open position l im i ts, in terms of each bank's actual cap i ta l, were set at 12.5% and 20% for a single currency and overall foreign currency, respectively. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ion al investors January 1. The delegated l im it of lend ing to nonresident-controlled business en t i t ies by comercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions was increased to F$200,000. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market ins t rumen ts Con tro ls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Changes During 1998 January L Au thor ized banks may approve advance paymen ts for impor ts up to F$500,000 w i thout specific approval of the RBF. January L The export retention l im it was raised to 25% from 20% of an expor ter's total export earnings for the previous year. January L The ceiling on the emigration allowance was relaxed. For operating p ro f i ts of nonresident investors, the l im it was raised to the current year p lus f ive years' re- tained earnings instead of the current year plus four years' retained earnings. The ceilings were removed on payments for commissions, travel, s tudy abroad costs, sub- scriptions and membership fees, consulting fees, foreign workers' wages, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, and restrictions on the use of credit cards for personal use wh i le on travel up to the imposed bank l im i ts. January L A new fac i l i ty was introduced for locally incorporated companies to allow for investments of up to F$500,000 a company, up to an overa ll national ce i l ing of F$5 m i l l ion to buy shares in companies offshore. January L The l im it on bank guarantees was raised to F$500,000 f rom F$200,000 for each nonresident-controlled business en t i ty or nonresident i n d i v i d u al w i th respect to any local dealing. January 7. (1) Nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may invest up to F$40 m i l l ion in 1998; (2) The l im it on overseas inves tmen ts for ind iv idu a ls and the ir relatives was increased to F$ 15,000 a fam i ly, up to an overall ceiling of F$10 m i l l ion; and (3) The l im it on expenditure to set up sales offices or subsidiaries abroad by local companies was in- creased to F$500,000 a subs id ia ry. Controls on personal capital movements January L The ceiling on g if ts, endowments, and inheritances was removed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions January L The ce i l ings on lend ing in Fiji dollars to nonresident-controlled bus iness entities and nonresident ind iv idua ls were increased to F$500,000 and F$50,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Currency The currency of Finland is the Finnish markka. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Finland participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th th is mechanism, Finland maintains spot exchange rates between the markka and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates, based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. Import licensing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export licensing relating to international export control regimes is administered by the trade department/foreign trade d iv is ion of the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry. F in land ma in ta ins exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions against Iraq and Libya. Exchange restrictions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and certain areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, were terminated in October 1996, w i th the exception of certain claims. A UN Security Council resolution on food for oil (Iraq) was implemented in December 1996. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 FINLAND Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas No. No. No. Yes. The fo l low ing products are subject to quan t i ta t ive import restrictions and require an import license when imported into the EU: agricultural products; certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements w i th Russia and Ukraine; certain steel products subject to an autonomous commun i ty quota for Kazakhstan; specific textile products subject to bilateral agreements w i th third countries, particularly third-country textile products subject to autonomous commun i ty quotas; and certain Chinese industrial products subject to autonomous community quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the M in is t ry of Defense. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 339 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and es tab l ishmen t. No. No. Acqu is i t ion of shares g iv ing at least one-third of the vo t ing rights in a Finnish defense enterprise to a single foreign owner requires prior conf irma t ion by the M in is try of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of the pub l ic defense is jeopardized. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The control applies on ly to the acqu is i t ion of real estate (1) for recreational purposes or secondary residences by nonresidents who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least f ive years; and (2) in the Aa land Islands. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts P ruden t ial regulation harmonized w i th EU directives is applied. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io inves ted loca l ly n.a. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 FINLAND Currency-matching regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of France is the French franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market France participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the cur- rency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands. Two groups of Afr ican countries are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiers africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique cen- trale, issued by the BEAC). These fixed parities are CFA 1 per F 0.055 and CFPF 1 per F 0.01, respectively. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Op- erations Account w i th the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc by a fixed par i ty of FC 1 to F 0.0133. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, wh ich may also act on behalf of banks es- tablished abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward w i th their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank resi- dents may purchase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, including nonenterprise ind iv idua ls, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward w i thout restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whe ther or not they are for hedging purposes. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange con trol au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of the Economy is the coo rd ina t ing agency for f in an c i al re la t ions w i th foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters re la t ing to inwa rd and ou tward direct inves tment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all trans- fers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 FRANCE International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Res tr ic t ions on paymen ts have been imposed on Iraq in accordance w i th the UN Se- cur i ty Council Reso lu t ion No. 986 (1995). No. No. Amoun ts exceeding the equ iva lent of F 50,000 mu st be declared to customs upon a r r ival or departure. At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tun is ia, bankno tes is- sued by these coun tr ies may not be exchanged in France. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. A customs declaration is required. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an adm in is t ra t ive visa issued by the Central Customs Adm in i s t ra t ion or the appropriate m in is try and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Imports of products of the ECS£ require such adm in is tra t ive visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP of the EU are subject to var iab le impo rt levies that have replaced prev ious barriers. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricul- tural and livestock products. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions consist of EU-wide and na t ional restrictions. The former include textile and apparel l im i ts under the MFA and vo lun- tary export restraints. Na t ional measures are authorized under Article 115 of the EU Treaty. For some commodities, such as petroleum and petroleum products, global quotas are allocated annua l ly. In other cases, quotas are allocated sem iannua l ly and apply to all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs FRANCE 343 coun tr ies (other than those that have b i la te ra l ly negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Impor ts of goods that or ig ina te outside of the EU and are subject to qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions require i n d i v i d- ual licenses. Common EU regulations are also applied to impor ts from non-EU countries. Du t ies are collected at the t ime of en try in to the EU in relation to the or ig in of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (w i th in the CAP) and, if nec- essary, an an t idump ing levy can be added. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Certain p roh ib i ted goods may be exported on ly under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for works of art, wh ich are subject to the VAT. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital movemen ts between France and Monaco and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of exchange control. The French capital market is based on the p r inc ip le of freedom of access and operation. The only restrictions apply to the issuance of certificates of deposit by nonresident banks and to Eurofranc issues, wh ich are subject to rules set by the Eurofranc Committee that establishes that the ma jo r i ty of Eu ro f ranc issues must be sold abroad. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins t rumen ts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can on ly issue commercial paper. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 FRANCE Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The restriction does not apply to collective investment securities that are of EU origin and comply with EC Directive 85/61 I/EC. Purchase abroad by residents French mutual funds can acquire securities only in the EU-regulated market or in mar- kets admitted by the Securities Exchange Commission. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. Direct investments are defined as those where foreign investors hold more than one- th ird of the capital. In the case of f i rms whose shares are quoted on the stock ex- change, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each ind iv idual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the M in is try of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, pa ten ts and licenses, and commercial contracts. An authorization is needed for investments in areas per ta in ing to pub l ic order and defense. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely trans- ferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the M in i s t ry w i th in 20 days of its occurrence. The l iqu ida t ion of direct investments abroad is free from any prior appli- cation, provided that the corresponding funds had been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional in- vestors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad No. No. No. n.a. Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition European insurance companies are required to cover the ir technical reserves w i th as- sets expressed in the same currency. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Gabon is the CFA franc issued by the BEAC. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and inc lude a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.25% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private cap i tal transfers to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, na t ional accoun t ing offices, na t ional and in terna t ional pub l ic agencies, and p r iva te entities granted exemption by the M in i s t ry of Finance, Budget, and Participa- t ions (MOFBP) because of the na tu re of the ir ac t iv i t ies. No. No. There are no fo rwa rd exchange marke ts for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers may a lways cover the ir position on the Paris foreign exchange market. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Gabon is an Operations Account coun t ry, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account coun tr ies. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t im a t e ly settled th rough a debit or credit to the Operations Accoun t. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The Directorate of F in an c i al I n s t i t u t i o ns (DPI) of the MOFBP supervises bo r row ing and lend ing abroad. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the MOFBP, wh ich has pa r t ly delegated approval au tho r i ty to au tho r ized banks for current paymen ts and to the BEAC for issues related to the external position of the banks. All exchange trans- actions re la t ing to fore ign coun tr ies mu st be effected th rough authorized intermediar- ies —the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on and authorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 GABON International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears n.a. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the au thor iza t ion of the MOFBP. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i- ties, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con ta in ing a small q u a n t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated articles). The expor ta t ion of gold is the monopoly of the Societe gabonaise de recherches et d 'exp lo i ta t ion minieres. Impor ts of gold exempted from licensing and au thor iza t ion requ iremen ts are subject to cus- toms declaration. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonres iden ts may export from one BEAC coun try to another, but exports of banknotes outside the BEAC zone are proh ib i ted. Residents t rave l ing outside the BEAC zone are subject to the var ious l im i ts imposed on foreign exchange allowances allocated for each t r ip, depending on the na ture of the travel. Nonresident travelers may take w i th them foreign currenpy or other foreign means of payment equ iva lent to the m ax imum amount declared upon en try in to the BEAC zone. Above th is ce i l ing, or in the absence of a declaration, nonres iden ts must prov ide suppor t ing documents exp la in ing the origin of such amoun ts. The same regulations apply as those for exports of domestic currency. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any other bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. No. These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were applied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 347 territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspon- den ts' au tho r ized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in L ib rev i l le may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. All import transac t ions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized bank. n .a. n.a. Import declarations to, or licenses approved by, the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and the MOFBP (DPI) en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to the au thor ized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports of commerc ial goods must be insured through authorized insurance com- panies in Gabon. Negative l ist Open general licenses Some imports are proh ib i ted for security and health reasons. Except for sugar, impor ts from all coun tr ies are free of restrictions and do not require licenses. All impo r ts, however, are subject to dec lara t ion. Licenses w i th quotas The impor ta t ion of sugar is subject to a surcharge. Import taxes and/or tariffs The common du ty rates of the UDEAC member countries of 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw ma ter ia ls and cap i tal goods, 20% for in termed ia te goods, and 30% for consumer goods are app l ied. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion P resh ipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to coun tr ies outside the BEAC zone must be collected and repatriated w i t h in 30 days of the payment date s t ipu la ted in the contract, un less a spe- cial wa iver is granted by the MOFBP. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of collection. n.a. n .a. Export transactions re la t ing to fore ign coun tr ies mu st be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized bank. n.a. Exports are subject to dec lara t ion to the M i n i s t ry of Foreign Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 GABON Export taxes Export taxes are levied on m in ing products (0.5%) and forest products (5% to 11%). Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to bona fide tests in the form of the declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MOFBP. For many types of paymen t, the monitoring func t ion of the MOFBP has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pensions Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Residents trave l ing to other countries of the franc zone may obtain an un l im i ted allo- cation in French francs. W i th in the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes may be exported w i thout limits. Residents traveling outside the BEAC zone are allowed to take out foreign banknotes and other means of payment up to a l im it of CFAF 2 m i l l ion and CFAF 5 m i l l ion for tourism and business purposes, respectively. Persons trave l ing to countries outside the franc zone for medical reasons may obtain an exchange allocation of up to CFAF 2.5 m i l l ion. Students or trainees leaving Gabon for the f irst time or re turn ing to their normal place of study in countries outside the BEAC zone may obtain an exchange allowance equivalent to CFAF 1 million. Foreign workers are allowed to transfer 50% of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period concerned. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. The use of credit cards, wh ich must be issued by resident f in an c i al in termed iar ies and approved by the MOFBP, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tou r ism and bus iness travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i t h in a mon th of the due date. Re tu rn ing resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in the ir possession upon a r r ival ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 349 at customs and surrender w i th in eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control, except for the sale or introduction of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and require the ap- proval of the DPI, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Gabon. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior au thor iza t ion from the MOFBP. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are op- erations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Bv residents to nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Lend ing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MOFBP. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 GABON To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is au thor iza t ion: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks and (2) other loans, of wh ich the total amount ou ts tand ing does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DPI w i th in 20 days of the op- eration except when the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion. Borrowing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior au tho r iza t ion from the MOFBP. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is au tho r iza t ion: (1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inves tment abroad for wh ich prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans d irec t ly con- nected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f i rms mentioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in wh ich these persons or f i rms take par t; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of wh ich the total amount ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. However, for the con trac t ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of au thor iza t ion, each repayment must be declared to the DPI w i th in 20 days of the op- eration un less the total ou t s tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the bor- rower is CFAF 5 m i l l ion or less. Yes. Yes. n .a. n.a. Inves tmen ts, inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or ind i- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of fore ign companies in Gabon, must be declared to the MOFBP, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from re inves tment of und is tr ibu ted prof i ts. Investments must be declared to the MOFBP w i th in 20 days of the operation, un less they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from the reinvestment of und i s t r ib- uted prof i ts; w i th in two mon ths of receipt of the declaration, the MOFBP may request the postponement of the project. Foreign companies inves t ing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equ iva lent to at least 10% of the company's capital. The fu ll or par t ial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must be declared to the MOFBP w i t h in 20 days of the operation, unless the operation invo lves the r e l inqu i sh- ing of a shareholding that had prev ious ly been approved as cons t i tu t ing a direct in- vestment in Gabon. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are not permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Imports and import payments January L All import quotas, pa r t icu la r ly on sugar, were l i f ted and replaced by tem- porary import surcharges to be e l im ina ted g radua l ly over a period of three years. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gamb ian da las i. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. Com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, w i th the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or w i th customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week w i th the participation of the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. Dur ing th is session, the average market rate dur ing the week is announced as the rate for customs valuation purposes for the fo l low ing week. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears No. n.a. n .a. No. n .a. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or No. bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts These accounts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 THE GAMBIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Accounts denominated in dalasis are designated external accounts and may be opened w i thout reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Designated external accounts may be credited with payments from residents of other countries, w i th transfers from other external accounts, and w i th the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for purchases of other convertible currencies. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain goods are prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Yes. Customs du ty rates range from 4% to 60%, w i th a few goods subject to higher rates. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organiza- tions are exempt from th is tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 353 Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no stock markets in The Gambia. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are allowed if residents have the means to conduct them. On money market instruments There is no market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments do not exist in The Gambia. Commercial banks may provide overdraft facilities to members of diplomatic and international missions in The Gambia. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Only a few large companies have access to these facilities. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Inward transfers for purposes of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG for statistical purposes. Transfers of proceeds may be made after all taxes are paid. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Social Security and Finance Holding Company is not allowed to ma in ta in these accounts. Gambian banks are not allowed to offer deposits in foreign currencies. Inward investors are expected to bring in their own foreign funds. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im i ts set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis, and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 THE GAMBIA Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Currency The currency of Georgia is the Georgian lari. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing The official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is determined daily. The off ic ial rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and enterprises and other legal entities. The Na t ional Bank of Georgia (NBG) and the major commercial banks participate in the f ix ing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and the ir customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements for transactions between the governments of Kazakhs tan, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, and Uzbekistan can be made through a system of correspondent accounts in convertible currency. Correspondent accounts w i th the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU are either inoperative or no longer exist. Payment arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The NBG is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, wh ich are formulated in collaboration w i th the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF). The NBG has the au thor i ty to issue general foreign exchange licenses to banks that permit them to en- gage in foreign exchange transactions with residents and nonresidents and to open correspondent accounts w i th banks outside Georgia. The NBG also has the au tho r i ty to issue in te rnal licenses to banks that permit them to engage in the same range of foreign exchange transactions as general license holders, except the opening of corre- spondent accounts w i th banks abroad. All transfers of foreign exchange by holders of in te rnal licenses must be carried out through correspondent accounts held e i ther w i th the NBG or w i th a bank that holds a general license. The NBG also has the au tho r i ty to issue licenses for the es tab l ishment of exchange bureaus to engage in cash transactions. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) A license is required to trade in gold. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 GEORGIA Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to four un i ts of each currency denomination may be taken out w i thout permission. The exportation of foreign currency notes by nonresidents is permitted up to the amount originally imported. Residents may export up to the equivalent of $500 w i th- out restriction. Amoun ts in excess of $500 are subject to a special fee ranging from 2% for amoun ts up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 to 3% for amounts above $10,000. On imports A declaration is required. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. There are no restrictions on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports of weapons, narcotics, indus tr ial equ ipmen t, phar- maceuticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). Import taxes and/or tariffs A customs du ty of 12% is levied on most non-CIS imports as well as imports of fue ls from CIS countries; effec t ive Janua ry 1, 1997, certain goods are subject to a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 357 5% customs du ty, including specific capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials. Items exempted from customs duties include wheat, mazut, baby food, goods for embassies, imported goods in customs warehouses, reexports, some pharmaceutical products, and raw materials and semifinished goods destined for pro- duction of exports w i th in certain limits. All imports are subject to a 0.3% customs processing fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; pine seeds; num isma t ic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleontologi- cal, archeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for the production of medicine. Exports of scrap metal are prohibited. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. All exports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.3%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments are subject to ind ica t ive limits and/or bona fide tests, except for amorti- zation of loans and depreciation of direct investment, and gambling and prize earn- ings, for wh ich in fo rma t ion is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Inwa rd and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration requirements for mon i tor ing purposes. The issuance, trading, recording, and redemp- tion of government securities are regulated by the Law of Georgia on the Public Debt (1998). The Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges is curren t ly being developed. On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 GEORGIA On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Under the Foreign Inve s tment Law (1996), the taxa t ion and promotion of inves tment ac t iv i t ies by jo int ven tures and foreign enterprises are regulated by the current tax legislation. Foreign inves tment enterprises that received licenses before th is law came in to effect w i ll con t inue to enjoy all r igh ts and benef i ts granted under the p rev ious law for a period of f ive years from the date of issuance of those licenses. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 January 1. The Law on Customs Du ty of December 27, 1996 introduced a second import tar iff band of 5%. Only a few goods are covered under t h is rate, i n c l u d i ng cer- tain capital goods, some medical goods that were p rev ious ly nonexemp t, and a few raw materials. The number of medicines exempt from customs duties was raised to 16 from 6, and literature pub l ished by Georgian citizens abroad was added to the list of exempted goods. Imports rema in ing exempt from duties include goods destined for human i ta r ian aid and various categories of food and medicines, as well as imports from CIS countries (except for fue l) since the beg inn ing of 1997. Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts March 5, The Law of Georgia on the Pub l ic Debt regu la t ing the issuance, t rad ing, recording, and redemption of government securities was passed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Germany is the deutsche mark. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in the ERM of the EMS w i th in margins of ±15%, except for the Netherlands Guilder for which the band fluctuation is ±2.25%. The arrangements im- ply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amounts at specified interven- tion rates. In principle, interventions w i th in the EMS are made in participating cur- rencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed l im i ts but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the do- mestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. Ger- many has no off ic ia l ly fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. Exchange control authorities All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions In compliance w i th UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions regard- ing Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 GERMANY Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures No. No. No. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from Ch ina is subject to the EU 's annual global quota. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to the agreement on textiles and clothing and to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU w i th var ious supp l ier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Im- ports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a vo lun tary restrictions agreement. Imports of rolled steel products from Kazakhstan are subject to an autonomous EU quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Certain exports (mostly m i l i ta ry and dua l -use goods) are subject to i n d i v i d u a l, global, or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 361 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The restriction applies only to the purchase of federal savings bonds by nonresident entities that are of benefit to the public. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of bonds denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks w i th a ma- tu r i ty of less than two years is prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents Securities denominated in deutsche mark should only be issued under the lead man- agement of credit ins t i tu t ions domiciled in Germany. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of money market securities and debt ins trumen ts denominated in deutsche mark issued by nonresident banks with maturity of less than two years is prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents Securities denominated in deutsche mark should only be issued under the lead man- agement of credit in s t i tu t ions domiciled in Germany. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements No. No. No. No. No. No. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requirements on the level of the ir foreign li- abilities w i th ma tur i t ies of less than four years of 2% on sight deposits and t ime de- posits and 1.5% on savings deposits; the requirements in principle are the same as those applied to domestic liabilities. Book l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents in foreign cur- rency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on non- residents in foreign currency w i th ma tur i t ies of less than four years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 GERMANY Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad There are certain provisions for the portfolio of l ife insurances and pension funds for prudential regulations. Same regulations as for securities apply. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Currency-matching regulation for l i fe insurances, pension fund s, and old-age provi- sion inves tment funds exist. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency The currency of Ghana is the Ghana ian cedi. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate in the interbank market is used for off ic ial valuation pu r- poses but is not a lways applied by authorized banks in the ir transactions w i th each other or w i th the ir customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies, w i th daily quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements related to transactions covered by b i la teral payment agreements are made th rough clearing accoun ts ma in ta ined by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the cen tral banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries w i th w h i ch Ghana does not have b i la teral payment agreements mu st be received in the currency of the impo r t ing coun try (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for au thor- ized inward paymen ts to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other off ic ial accounts related to the same coun try and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. Ghana has agreements w i th Bu lgar ia, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech Repub l ic, Poland, Roman ia, and the Slovak Repub l ic. The clearing balances on these agreements are being settled. The Foreign Transactions Exam ina t ions Off ice (FTEO) of the BOG records and con- f i rms foreign capital in f lows and adm in is ters foreign exchange for o f f ic ial payments and t rave l. All foreign exchange transactions by the p r iva te sector are approved and effected by authorized banks w i thout reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Domestic t ransac t ions in gold may be au thor ized by the State Gold M i n i ng Corpora- t ion in collaboration w i th the BOG, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by pe rm it under the Gold M i n i ng Products Protection Ordinance. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 364 GHANA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not norma l ly licensed. The import du ty on gold, inc lud ing bu l l ion and partly worked gold, is levied at a un i fo rm rate of 30%. The gold mines export their ou tput in semirefined form. The exportation of Ghana ian banknotes is permitted up to 05,000. Residents trave l ing abroad are permitted to carry up to the equ iva lent of $3,000. Travelers may reimport up to 05,000 that they were allowed to export. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Accounts in domestic currency are convertible into foreign currency on ly for approved purposes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of h igh commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghana ian members of the ir staffs. It is also available to in terna t ional in s t i tu- tions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. The accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward paymen ts, w i th transfers from other foreign accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for inward paymen ts, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies upon approval by the BOG. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are perm i t ted, but prior approval is required. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain types of capital proceeds) may be deposited in blocked accounts, wh ich may be debited for authorized paymen ts, inc lud ing for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspec t ion No. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 365 Letters of credit Most imports are effected w i th confirmed LCs established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Tariffs range from zero to 25% of the c.i.f. va lue of imports. A s ign if icant portion of imports, mostly for inves tmen t, is exempted. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from the ir exports w i th in 60 days of sh ipmen t; proceeds from exports of non t rad i t ional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35% of the ir export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60% for the Ashan ti Gold M in ing Company, 20% for log exporters, and 2% for the Cocoa Board. The retention ratio for non trad i t ional exports is 100%, and proceeds are generally channeled through banks other than the BOG. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion LCs are required, except for non trad i t ional exports. Yes. Yes. Presh ipment inspection An inspection is required, except for non t rad i t ional exports. Export licenses Export taxes No. Cocoa exports are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds and paymen ts to farmers, together w i th the Cocoa Board's costs if proceeds exceed paymen ts. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Fre igh t / insurance Commissions Quantitative limits Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inve s tmen ts Prior approval Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Freight charges may be paid to the local sh ipp ing agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is no rma l ly permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Yes. Yes. Residents t rave l ing abroad are perm i t ted to carry up to the equ iva lent of $3,000. In add i t ion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 for direct purchases abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 GHANA Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts All receipts from inv i s ib les must be sold to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); ind iv idu al ho ld ings and total holdings of all nonres iden ts in one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, nonresident par t ic ipa t ion requires the fo l low ing m i n im um equ i ty in jec t ions to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equ iva lent in cap i tal goods when the enterprise is a jo int ven tu re; (2) $50,000 or its equ iva lent in capital goods when the enterprise is who l ly owned by a non -Ghana ian; and (3) $300,000 or its equ iva lent in cap i tal goods in the case of a trad ing enterprise involved only in the purchas ing and selling of goods that is either who l ly or par t ly owned by a non-Ghana ian and that employs at least 10 Ghanaians. These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). The transfer or repatriation of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents There are no restrictions on these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange for the purchase of securities requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts These t ransac t ions requ ire the prior approval of the BOG. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents These transac t ions requ ire the prior approval of the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions requ ire the p r ior approval of the BOG. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Current regu la t ions do not allow nonresidents to br ing in foreign exchange for the purpose of inves t ing in local money market ins t rumen ts (BOG and government secu- rities). However, nonresidents ho ld ing local currencies can invest in these ins t rumen ts. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents No res tr ic t ions app ly to these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange for the purchase of these ins t rumen ts requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases requ ire prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions, as well as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated w i th these sales, require BOG approval. Purchase abroad by residents There are no restrictions on these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange requires prior approval from the BOG. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the consent of the MOF. GHANA 367 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits Currently, a local market in derivatives and other ins trumen ts does not exist. No re- strictions apply, but the purchase of foreign exchange requires BOG approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is required for the credits, wh ich must be channeled through the bank- ing system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents These credits require BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the fac i l i t ies available under the Investment Code (1981), under wh ich approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or l iqu ida t ion, capital proceeds. Tax ho l idays and in i t ial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The m in imum qu a l i fy ing amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a jo in t- venture enterprise w i th a Ghana ian partner; (2) $450,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity when the enterprise is who l ly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in goods by way of equity capital when the enterprise is either who l ly or par t ly owned by a non -Ghana ian, employs at least 10 Ghana ians, and is involved in the purchas ing and selling of goods. The Investment Code (1981) stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Disputes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation (for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on In terna t ional Trade and Law). Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Ind iv idua ls are allowed up to $500. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 GHANA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad BOG notification is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOG notification is required. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Yes. Yes. These purchases are allowed w i th in reasonable or acceptable limits. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Based on the volume of foreign exchange transactions of dealer banks. This is subject to periodic review. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 22, 1992. Currency The currency of Greece is the Greek drachma. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The exchange rate for the drachma is determined in daily f ix ing sessions in wh ich the Bank of Greece (BOG) and authorized commercial banks participate. Greece is a member of the EMS. The drachma is included in the ECU basket, and Greece was admitted to the ERM of the EMS on March 15, 1998. No. No. Yes. The BOG provides credit ins t i tu t ions forward foreign exchange transactions in the form of currency swaps. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in drachmas. No. There are no exchange controls. Resident credit institutions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions w i th nonresidents and are obliged to provide to the BOG all the information necessary to compile the balance of paymen ts. In addition, na tural and jur id ical persons must in fo rm the BOG, for statistical purposes, of transactions w i th nonresidents of sums greater than ECU 2,000 if a domestic banking ins t i tu t ion is not involved. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade n.a. Yes. No. Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the BOG through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the BOG. These gold coins may be resold only to the BOG or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965, may sell them w i thout any forma l i ty to the BOG or to an authorized bank at the official price. Gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may be reexported after approval by the BOG. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 GREECE Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents and nonresidents leaving Greece should declare amounts of banknotes and personal checks in domestic and/or foreign currency exceeding the equ iva lent of ECU 2,000. For amounts up to the equivalent of ECU 10,000, they must provide in the declaration the fiscal number, the purpose of the transfer, their iden t if ica t ion card or passport number if they are residents of Greece or other EU member countries, and their passport number if they are residents of non-EU member countries. If the amount exceeds the equ iva lent of ECU 10,000, residents must also provide a copy of the ir tax certificate. Yes. Yes. Residents and nonresidents entering Greece should declare the imported banknotes and personal checks in domestic and foreign currency, if the total amount exceeds the equ iva lent of ECU 10,000. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency As of August 1, 1997, residents are permitted to convert drachma deposits held w i th resident credit ins t i tu t ions into foreign currency deposits. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Special import licenses are required for some specific products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture f i lms. Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 371 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no con tro ls on paymen ts for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and storage, adm in i s t ra t ive expenses, commissions, interest payments, remittance of profits and dividends, amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments, medical treat- men t, subscr ip t ion and membersh ip fees, consu l t ing or legal fees, pensions, or fam i ly ma in tenance and a l imony, or on the remittance of prof i ts and d iv idends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The l im it is ECU 2,000 a t r ip a person in domestic or foreign currency. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. The l im it is ECU 2,000 a t r ip a person in banknotes; additional amoun ts are permitted upon presentation of the relevant documentation. Rem i t tances of earn ings by foreign workers are perm i t ted, w i th the provision of the relevant documen ta t ion. Approval is subject to relevant documen ta t ion. The l im it on w i thd r aw al in foreign banknotes is the equ iva lent of ECU 1,000 a mon th. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The purchase of shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa tory nature in the broadcast- ing and ma r i t ime sectors, which may be affected by the laws on inward direct invest- ment and es tab l ishmen t, is proh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 GREECE Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of national security. There are also restrictions on the acquisition of m in ing r igh ts and participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or ma r i t ime and air transport. No. No. No. No. No. Transactions in nonorganized capital markets are not allowed. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts July 29. The obligation of transferring all payments exceeding ECU 20,000 through resident credit ins t i tu t ions was abolished. August 1. Residents were permitted to convert the ir drachma into foreign currency deposits held w i th resident credit ins t i tu t ions. Exchange arrangement March 15. Greece was adm i t ted to the ERM of the EMS. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 24, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, wh ich is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange.market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds ster- l ing, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Settlements w i th residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or th rough an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Grenada is a member of the CARICOM. Grenada par t ic ipa tes in the CMCF. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some impo rt paymen ts and certain other ou tward paymen ts. The Trade D iv is ion of the MOF adm in is ters trade control. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions There are res tr ic t ions on trade re la t ions w i th Libya. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con t ro ls on domes t ic own e r sh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on ex ternal trade Res iden ts other th an the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies, au thor ized dealers, and indu s t r ial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry or coins for num i sma t ic purposes. Impor ts of gold are permitted for indus t r ial purposes only and are subject to customs du t ies and charges. The MOF issues licenses to impo rt gold. The exportation of gold is not n o rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 GRENADA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted n .a. Nonresident travelers may export, w i th the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought in to Grenada, and both residents and nonresidents mu st re- ceive permission f rom the MOF to take out in any one transaction sums in excess of EC$250,000. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts may be freely debited but can be credited on ly w i th foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holders of these accounts must submit regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. The same regulations app ly as for resident accounts. These accounts must be credited w i th funds from an external source, and a statement of debits and credits must be subm i t ted to the MOF every mon th for each external account. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Paymen ts for restricted im- ports and any goods and services in excess of the l im i ts of au thor ized dealers require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Prohibited goods inc lude whole chickens, chicken eggs, l ive breeding pou l t ry, war /toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quan t i ta t ive restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, inc lud ing bu lk purchases of m i lk; sugar; rice; a variety of tropical f ru i ts and vegeta- bles; carbonated beverages; arms and ammun i t ion; indus t r ial gas; pa in ts; and miscel- laneous items associated w i th fu rn i tu re, clothing, and the construction indus t ry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses (permitted under Article 56 of the CARICOM Agreement) include curry products, cigarettes, indu s t r i al gas, f u r n i t u r e, exotic birds, solar water heaters, and various tropical f ru i ts and vegetables. Licenses w i th quotas Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs GRENADA 375 Ceiling prices on garments, handbags, refr igera tors, and stoves are set. All impor ts from non-CARICOM countries are subject to a GET of 25% to 35%. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge, and imports not exempt from customs duties are subject to a GET of 25% to 35%. Impor ts not granted exemptions from customs du t ies are subject to a general consump t ion tax (GCT) regime w i th three broad rates of 10%, 15%, and 25%. There are three add i t ional GCT rates of 50%, 55%, and 75% that are applied to specific i tems, such as imports of new cars, impo r ts of foreign used cars, and cigarettes, respectively. In 1997, an env i ronmen tal levy was introduced that consists of an EC$.25 charge on each imported bottle of l iquor, car- bonated and noncarbonated beverages, and syrups. The levy also consists of a 1 % charge on the c.i.f. of "wh i te goods" (durable consumer i tems) and a 2% charge on the c . i .f. of imported cars. Imports of capital equipment are subject to a m in imum charge of 5% under the GET and 25% under the consumption tax. However, most capital imports are granted exemptions from import duties, and all capital imports by domes- tic associations invo lved in the g row ing or packaging of bananas, maize, or nu tmeg are exempt from import du t ies, provided that the imports are used for improvemen ts in the indus tr ies. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The Ma rke t ing and Na t ional Impo r t ing Board is the sole au thor ized impo r ter of b u lk purchases of m i lk, f lou r, and sugar. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers (commercial banks) in fore ign exchange. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of exotic b irds, coral, m ine ral prod- ucts, and l ive sheep and goats to any des t ina t ion. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Payments for inv i s ib les related to au thor ized impor ts are not restricted but requ ire the approval of the MOF whenever a single t ransac t ion exceeds EC$250,000. There are no controls on paymen ts for subscr ip t ions and membersh ip fees, and the use of credit cards abroad. App roval is granted if all related l i ab i l i t i es have been discharged and the inve s tment was registered w i th the MOF. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n .a. Study abroad costs Prior approval MOF approval is required, and permission is usua l ly granted on presentation of documen ta t ion of registration and the costs of tu i t ion and other expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consu l t ing / legal fees Prior approval MOF approval, w h i ch is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payment for such services, is required. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, sub jec t, where app l icab le, to w i t h h o l d i ng on income tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 GRENADA Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of imm ig rant status. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Pensions Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Approval is granted upon proof of imm igrant status. Yes.' n.a. Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of established l iab i l i t ies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from inv is ib les is manda tory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Any single outward capital transaction in excess of EC$250,000 requires exchange control approval. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securites must be repatriated. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inward direct investment GRENADA 377 n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Local currency f inanc ing is not ordinarily permitted and requires the approval of the MOF. Yes. n.a. Yes. Cabinet approval via the Industrial Development Corporation is normally required for nonresidents operating manufac tur ing enterprises and hotels, and an alien landholding license is required for nonresidents to hold both f inanc ial and physical property. Non- resident labor services are generally permitted w i th work permits, wh ich are issued by the M in is t ry of Labor. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the original inves tment was registered w i th the MOF. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An alien landholding license must be issued by the Office of the Prime Minister. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Any borrow ing abroad by na t iona ls to f inance the ir domestic operations generally requires the approval of the MOF. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Yes. n.a. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign curren- cies to f inance approved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance the ir domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 GRENADA Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Local currency f inanc ing requires the approval of the MOF but is not o rd ina r i ly permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Currency The currency of Gua tema la is the Guatemalan quetzal. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market where the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) intervenes to moderate undue fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange on behalf of the pub l ic sector, and to service its own external debt. All foreign exchange transac t ions of the pub l ic sector mu st take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equ iva lent to the weighted average of the buy ing and selling rates in the inter- bank market du r ing the day before the previous business day. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No, Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in dollars, domes- tic currency, or other means of paymen t, in accordance w i th special payment agreements. There are payment arrangements under the Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement and the Panama-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreements between Guatemala and El Salvador, Honduras, and Costa Rica func t ioned u n t il 1995. Gua tema la is a member of the CACM. Yes. The BOG adm in is ters exchange controls. Foreign exchange transactions in the pub l ic sector are carried out exc lus ive ly through the BOG; those in the pr iva te sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. No. Arrears are ma in ta ined w i th respect to certain external paymen ts related to o f f ic ial debt, mostly w i th Paris C lub creditors. n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Reg ional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade The BOG may buy and sell gold coins and bu l l ion either directly or through au thor- ized banks and is en t i t led to buy gold holdings surrendered by any resident. The BOG 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 GUATEMALA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accordance w i th guidelines from the Monetary Board w i th the government's approval. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the BOG issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the BOG. No. Resident Accounts These accounts are not permitted. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Only na tural persons are eligible. Members of embassies and staff of international ins t i tu t ions are allowed to hold these accounts. Prior approval is required. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. However, since the Uruguay Round and the GATT, Guatemalan imports of agricul- tural commodities and animal products have been subject to tar iffs. At present, those products are incorporated in and regulated w i th in the WTO charter as very sensitive for the Guatemalan economy. Licenses are required for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, lead, pou l t ry, m i lk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, and cottonseed. However, the required license is used only for intended qua l i ty and health control purposes. Guatemala applies the CET for processed goods of the CACM, wh ich ranges from zero to 19%, w i th v i r tua l ly all intra-CACM trade exempt from tariffs. The max imum ta r i f fs on raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods produced in Central America are 9% and 14%, respectively, wh i le the m ax imum tariff rates on raw mate- r ia ls, and intermediate and capital goods not produced in Central America are zero and 1%, respectively. Some processed products, such as coffee, sugar, oil, whea t, and alcohol, wh ich are traded w i th the CACM, are subject to tariffs rang ing from 1% to 19%. Gua tema la 's ta r i ff s truc ture con t inues to exempt certain processed products from the m ax imum CET rate of 19%. The tariff rate for most textiles and footwear is 30%. In addition, certain agr icu l tural products enjoy safeguard provisions and are subject to tar iff rate quotas under WTO rules, wh ich also allow ta r i f fs well above the max imum rate for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 381 impo r ts in excess of quota. Pou l try and pou l t ry parts are subject to a quo ta of 7,000 metric tons a year, w i th ta r i f fs of 15% w i t h in quota and 45% in excess of quo ta. Other examp les are apples and pears (12% and 25%); corn (5% and 35%); rice (10% and 50%); and wheat f lour (9% and 15%). These quotas are adjusted yea r ly, fo l low ing discussions between the private sector and governmen t. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Foreign exchange proceeds must be sold to an au tho r ized pa r t ic ipant in the in t e rb ank market other th an the BOG. The gran t ing of export licenses is con t ingent upon the agreement to sell export proceeds to any au thor ized pa r t ic ipant in the in t e rb ank ma rket other than the BOG w i t h in 90 days of the date of issue ( th is period may be ex tended to 180 days). No. No. Exporters must ob ta in an export license issued by the BOG before the Gua tema lan customs can authorize sh ipment of the merchandise. A few other items, i n c l u d i ng gold (unless the BOG issues a special export license) and s i lver, may not be exported in any fo rm. In the case of exports to Central Amer ica, export licenses are requ ired on ly for statistical purposes. Exports of wheat f lou r, e thyl a lcoho l, roasted coffee, and tobacco and cigarettes to Central Amer ican coun tr ies are temporar i ly restricted. Exports of apparel and tex t i les to the U.S. market are subject to quotas. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Proceeds for i n v i s i b l es mu st be sold to an au tho r ized f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion at the market rate. Capital Transactions No. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 GUATEMALA Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Foreign direct inves tment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special legislation. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Inv e s tm ent regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. The l im it for banks and finance companies is 25% of the va lue of their pa id-up capital and reserves; for exchange houses, it is 100%. Foreign exchange exceeding these lim- its at the end of each day must be negotiated in the interbank market or sold to the BOG. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 January 1. Guatemala fu r ther reduced its max imum tar iff rate for processed goods by one percentage point to 19%; reduced the rates on raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods produced in Central America by one percentage point to 9% and 14%, respectively; and reduced the rates on raw materials, and intermediate and cap i tal goods not produced in Central America to zero and 1%, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Gu inean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is determined by supply and demand for for- eign exchange between authorized dealers and the ir clients, or among dealers themselves. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settle- ments on account of transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the p rov is ions of the agreements. Settlements w i th all countries are made in designated conver t ib le currencies quoted by the Central Bank of the Repub l ic of Guinea (CBRG). Guinea ma in ta ins bilateral payment agreements w i th Bulgaria, Ch ina, the Czech Re- public, Egypt, Roman ia, Russ ia, and the Slovak Republic. Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the CBRG, wh ich has delegated to the com- mercial banks au tho r i ty to (1) approve import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import application forms (demandes descriptives d'importation)', (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign a ir l ine tickets; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. A ll settlements w i th foreign countries, inc lud ing paymen ts for impor ts, may be effected by the commercial banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The CBRG purchases gold in Gu inean francs at in te rna t ional prices. At the seller's request, the CBRG may purchase 50% of ou tput in foreign currency. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Transactions in nonmone tary gold are not subject to restrictions. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 GUINEA Controls on ex ternal trade The expor ta t ion of gold is subject to p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the CBRG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Exportation is l im i ted to GF 5,000 a person a tr ip. Exportation of foreign currency is made th rough the CBRG. Importation is l im i ted to GF 5,000 a person a t r ip. The impor ta t ion of foreign banknotes and t rave le r 's checks is perm i t ted, subject to declaration on en try. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks w i th in 15 days of the ir re tu rn. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Residents are free to open foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks. Exporters may hold all of the ir earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. Held abroad The prior approval of the CBRG is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Accounts in conver t ib le Gu inean francs may be credited w i th deposits in foreign ex- change, irrespective of its origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks in to foreign currencies w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Domestic currency accounts The same regu la t ions app ly as for resident accounts. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f in an c ing requirements The m in imum f inanc ing requ irement must be at least $2,000. Advance payment requ irement Advance paymen ts may be established by the commercial agreement. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports There are no restrictions on impor ts financed from own resources or th rough the for- eign exchange marke t. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Import taxes and/or tariffs GUINEA 385 Yes. Yes. Imports of armaments, ammun i t ions, and narcotics are prohibited. All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, custom duties of 8%, and customs charges of 7%, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions: an ima ls, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6% duty and a 2% charge; and food industry imports, ce- ment, and ag r icu l tu ral mach inery are subject to an 8% du ty and a 2% charge. In addi- t ion, a surtax of 20% or 30% is imposed on all luxu ry goods, and a surtax of 30% to 60% is levied on nonalcoholic beverages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports of the three mixed enterprises in the m in ing sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Private traders may retain all of the ir proceeds to f inance authorized imports. Gold exporters and vendors may retain all of the ir proceeds. Mixed enterprises may retain abroad all of their proceeds and may use them for import paymen ts, operating costs, and external debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require dom ic i l ia t ion w i th a commercial bank and submis- sion of an export description to help prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption and to iden t ify capital ou tf lows. Exports of the m in ing sector are exempt from th is requ iremen t. Yes. The exportation of w i ld an ima ls (dead or a l ive ), meats, articles of historic or ethno- graphic interest, jewe l ry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds re- qu ire special au thor iza t ion from designated agencies. Planters may be granted special au thor iza t ion to export specific quan t i t ies of pineapples, bananas, or c i trus f ru i t s. These consist of agr icu l tural products. There are quotas on the export of wild animals and articles of historic or ethnographic interest. Exports of d iamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. M in ing and petroleum products are subject to other export taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on un load ing and storage costs and on the use of credit cards abroad. All other paymen ts are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 GUINEA Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval is required for government operations. Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the M in is t ry of Labor. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments All capital transfers through the off ic ial exchange market require au thor iza t ion from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the o f f ic ial market are prohibited. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are curren t ly no transac t ions invo lv ing bonds. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. The au thor iza t ion of the CBRG is required. There are no l im i ts on amounts that nonresidents may invest in Gu inea, and all Gu inean and foreign na t iona ls may hold con tro l l ing interests in Gu inean enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions The au thor iza t ion of the CBRG is required. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 387 Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts Yes. in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The CFA franc, issued by the BCEAO, replaced the Guinea-Bissau peso beg inn ing May 2, 1997. The Guinea-Bissau peso was converted into the CFA franc at the rate of PG 65 per CFAF 1 du r ing May 2-July 31, 1997. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the f ixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate be- tween the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements w i th re- spect to imports of goods on certain lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the currency of payment stipulated in the contract and are subject to prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF). Nonrenewable for- ward exchange contracts may be concluded for one mon th. For certain products, the ma tu r i ty period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for three mon ths. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Guinea-Bissau is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Ac- count, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are u su a l ly effected either through correspondent banks in France or the coun try concerned in the currencies of those coun tr ies, or through foreign ac- counts in CFA francs, in French francs, or other currencies of the Operations Account area. Yes. On March 13, 1997, the agreement to adm it Gu inea -B issau in to the WEAMU on May 2, 1997 was ra t if ied. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of fore ign currencies or French francs against CFA f rancs are u l t im a t e ly settled th rough a deb it or credit to the Operations Accoun t. Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The approval au tho r i ty for exchange control (except for impor ts and exports of gold, for- wa rd exchange cover, and the open ing of external accounts in fore ign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, wh i ch is also au thor ized to collect, e i ther d irec t ly or 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 389 through banks, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or jud ic ial agents, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Settlements w i th a coun- try outside the Operations Account area must be formally approved by the customs administration. International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private No. Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exports and impor ts of gold are proh ib i ted unless expressly au thor ized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad The exportation of CFA banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addi- t ion, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and the ir correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payments registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. There are no restrictions on the impor ta t ion by resident or nonresident travelers of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents b r ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon en try and sell them to an authorized in termed iary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. The ho ld ing of these accounts is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The ho ld ing of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations p roh ib it any t rans fer tend ing to develop a res iden t 's foreign ho ld ings, un less approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 GUINEA-BISSAU Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency The holding of these accounts is not expressly covered by regu la t ions. In practice, based on an in terpre ta t ion of the regu la t ions, such ho ld ings requ ire the pr ior app roval of the MOR Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c i rcu la t ing outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident acounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn w i thout the pr ior au tho r i- zation of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currency on the o f f ic ial exchange marke t. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. All imports, regardless of whether they invo lve the use of o f f ic ial or free market for- eign exchange, require a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, p r ima r i ly for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative l is t, licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly after ver if ica t ion of invo ice prices for goods to be taxed. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to ta r i f fs up to 70%, a customs service tax of 6% to 10%, and a 3% surcharge. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of the date on wh ich paymen ts fa ll due. The authorized in termed iary bank must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All exports require a prior export license. Only exporters registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, wh ich are granted au toma t ica l ly in most cases. Prior licenses are intended p r ima r i ly for statistical purposes, a l though they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products of wh i ch the exportation is reserved solely for the pub l ic sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 391 W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. Exports, except those to ECOWAS countries, are subject to a customs service tax of 2%. Cashew nut exports are also subject to a special tax of 10%. Other agr icu l tural exports are subject to a rural property tax of 2%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Informa t ion is not available on paymen ts and transfers for the amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, and the use of credit cards abroad. Yes. For travel outside the franc zone, the l im i ts are the equivalent of CFAF 1 million a person a trip for tourist travel, with no limit on the number of trips or age distinctions, and the equ iva lent of CFAF 200,000 a person a day for business travel over a period of one month. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Outward capital transfers are subject to restrictions. Capital transfers to the WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, except for direct investments, which are subject to prior declaration, as are certain borrowing operations. Prior authorization is waived, however, in the fo l low ing cases: (1) borrowing guaranteed by the government of Guinea-Bissau; and (2) foreign shares that are similar to securities, the issuance, pub- lic announcement, or sale of which has already been approved in Guinea-Bissau. W i th the exception of controls on foreign securities, these measures do not apply to rela- tions w i th France, Monaco, WAEMU member countries, and Operations Account countries. There is also special surveillance of calls for subscribed funds for purposes of deposit w i th foreign nationals, corporations, or institutions, as well as of any public announcement for the purpose of investing funds abroad or subscribing to foreign construction or real estate operations. These special provisions also apply to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. The issuance and sale of securities in Guinea-Bissau by nonresidents require prior authorization from the MOF. A resident may, after obtaining prior authorization from the MOF, purchase securities issued or sold by a nonresident who has also received prior authorization. There is no restriction on the sale of securities constituting the liquidation of an investment when it takes the form of a transfer between a nonresident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 GUINEA-BISSAU Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents and a resident, provided that the f inanc ial settlement of the operation is in order. The settlement of a securities operation by outward transfer or by deposit to a nonresi- den t's account requires an exchange authorization that must be approved by the MOF, as well as documents attesting to the validity of the operation. These operations, as well as the outward transfer of funds for this purpose, require prior authorization from the MOF. Residents are free to sell the shares of resident companies abroad. If the effect of such operations is to place resident Guinea-Bissau companies under foreign control, the foreign investors must make a prior declaration to the MOF. The sale of securities constituting the l iqu ida t ion of an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MOF, and the proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These sales are subject to prior authorization from the MOF (except for sales constitut- ing the l iqu ida t ion of an inves tmen t, wh ich are restricted). Transfer of the proceeds of these operations requires an exchange authorization, wh ich must be approved by the MOF, as well as documents attesting to the va l id i ty of the operations. Purchase abroad by residents These operations require prior authorization from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Residents may freely sell money market ins trumen ts abroad. Sales constituting the liquidation of an inves tment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermedi- ary bank. Money market ins trumen ts issued abroad by residents are subject to the regulations on borrowing. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on wh ich payment falls due is not more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. There are no restrictions on credits in connection w i th services rendered. In these cases, no deadline is set for the date on wh ich payment falls due. There are no restrictions, and repayments of commercial credits are generally ap- proved, subject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the com- mercial operation or of the services rendered. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization subject to the approval of the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the MOF, substantiated by documentation. There are no restrictions on these credits, and the funds needed to service them must be transfered from outside th rough an authorized in termed iary bank. However, if such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 393 transactions take place between a direct investment company established in Guinea- Bissau and its parent company situated abroad, the transactions are regarded as direct inves tmen ts and are, therefore, subject to prior declaration to the MOF. If the credit itself is subject to prior au thor iza t ion, the outward transfer of funds needed to service it is accompanied by the required documentation attesting to the va l id i ty of the operation. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies The same regulations app ly as for f inanc ial credits. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions on the granting of these facilities, but the funds invo lved must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct inves tment company established in Guinea-Bissau and its parent company abroad, they are considered direct inves tmen ts and are, therefore, subject to prior declaration to the MOF. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct inves tment The Inves tment Code provides for incen t ives to inves tment and protection against the na t iona l iza t ion and expropriation of assets. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to the au thor iza t ion of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents These transactions require no t i f ica t ion to the MOF. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to the authorization of the MOF. Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets These transactions are subject to the au thor iza t ion of the MOF. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to the authorization of the MOF. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions require no t if ica t ion to the MOF. MOF approval is required. There are no restrictions if these operations invo lve com- mercial credits. Prior authorization from the MOF is required for loans, f inanc ial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange The same regulations apply as for lending to nonresidents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The same regulations apply as for lending to nonresidents. Credit controls Yes. D ifferen t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no d is t inc t ion between resident deposit accounts, nonresi- dent deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 GUINEA-BISSAU Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Changes During 1997 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement January 1. Guinea-Bissau accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Agreement. May 2. The Guinea-Bissau peso was converted into the CFA franc at the rate of PG 65 per CFAF 1 dur ing May 2-July 31, 1997. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The agreement to admit Guinea-Bissau into the WAEMU on May 2, 1997 was ratified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana dollar. Un i ta ry. The exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is determined freely in the cambio marke t. The Bank of Guyana (BOG) conducts certain transac t ions on the basis of the cambio ex- change rate by averaging quo ta t ions of the three largest dealers on the date the trans- action takes place. In accordance w i th the bilateral agreements w i th the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. No. No. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain de- posits in dormant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been given for deposits made after end-March 1989. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade There are arrangements w i th all CARICOM central banks. Guyana is a member of the CARICOM. No. No. Arrears exist w i th A rgen t ina, Ch ina, Ind ia, K uw a i t, Libya, Russ ia, and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). Arrears exist on certain do rmant accounts ho ld ing domestic currency deposits equ iv a- lent in va lue to pending applications for foreign exchange. Residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm except for num i sma t ic purposes and jewe l ry, at home or abroad, w i thout special per- m iss ion. Imports and exports of gold in any form by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users require permits endorsed by the Guyana Gold Board. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 GUYANA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. On imports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Travelers entering Guyana w i th foreign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of US$10,000 must declare the amount. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These ac- counts are approved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require imported inpu ts for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited w i th all or a portion of retained export proceeds and pro- ceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any paymen ts at the discretion of the account holder. Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts may be convertible at the preva i l ing cambio exchange rate. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. External accounts may be opened by commercial banks w i thout the prior approval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other countries temporarily residing in Guyana, nonresidents attached to d ip loma t ic mis- sions or international organizations, branches of companies incorporated outside of Guyana, and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Cana- dian dollars and may be credited w i th noncash ins t rumen ts of convertible foreign cur- rencies transferred through the banking system. These accounts may also be credited freely w i th all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of any coun try, for transfers to other external accounts, for w i thd rawa ls by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments The BOG prepares a hard currency receipts and paymen ts s ta tement to mon i tor pro- jected f lows. Import transac t ions effected through the camb io exchange market are perm i t ted w i th- out restriction. Most impor ts of consumer goods take place on th is basis. Certain pay- ments for off ic ial impor ts effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG require the b ank 's prior approva l. Requirements are related ma in ly to petroleum products. Documents required inc lude invoices, bills of lad ing, and certificates of o r ig in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 397 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum products and some 20 items affecting national security, health, pub l ic safety, and the env ironmen t. Impor ts of unprocessed meat, pou l t ry, f ru i t, and processed f ru it items are restricted, subject to impor t- l icens ing controls, from all non-CARICOM sources. The GET of CARICOM is applied to all imports from outside the marke t. Tariffs range from 5% to 25%. Intra-CARICOM trade is free of import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of gold and w i ld l i f e. Gold exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferen t ial markets and for w i ld l i fe exports. There are levies on exports of rice and sugar. For exports of t imber, baux i te, sugar, l ive birds, and aqua r ium f ish, an export du ty is applied. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to all countries may be freely effected through the camb io exchange market. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions By residents to nonresidents Borrow ing by nonres ident corporate entities requires approva l. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing requires prior approval. Financial credits Same regulations as for commercial credits app ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 GUYANA Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Open positions are presently being monitored. The setting of l im i ts is under consideration. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian gourde. The dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent f loa t ing The exchange rate is determined in the exchange market. Since April 1995, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH), the central bank, has operated a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates of the dollar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by money changers, with the banks following this market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. Operative H a i t i 's debt toward Argentina was rescheduled un t il 2001. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The BRH administers the foreign exchange system together with the M in is try of Fi- nance and Economic A f fa i rs (MFEA) and the M in is try of Commerce and Indus try (MCI). Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The BRH has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Gold in any form, other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers, may be imported and exported only by the BRH. Ex- ports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the MCI and the MFEA, as well as an endorsement from the MCI, before customs clearance. However, commer- cial imports of articles con ta in ing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 HAITI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts may be credited w i th export proceeds, w i th transfers from abroad re- ceived by exchange houses, or w i th receipts from maritime agencies and nongovern- mental organ iza t ions. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Same regulations apply as for residents. Yes. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are three standard ta r i ff rates, 5%, 10%, and 15%. Several goods have special tariff rates —gasoline, 25%; and cement, rice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic tu rnover tax is charged on the c.i.f. va lue plus import duties. All imports, except for inpu ts used by certain export industries, are subject to a 4% verification fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports of agr icu l tural products require prior au tho r iza t ion from the MCI. Au tho r iza- tion is u sua l ly granted freely but may be w i thhe ld when domestic supp l ies are low. n.a. Exports of manufac tured products to the United States, such as women 's and girls' blouses and shirts of cotton and synthetic fibers, men's shirts of synthetic fibers and cotton, cotton gloves, cotton pants, and cotton housecoats, are subject to quotas. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 401 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on most payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Capital Transactions Inwa rd direct inves tment Investments require prior government approval. Investments in hand icraft industries are not normally approved. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Private banks are required to ma in ta in at least 85% of their liabilities in domestic as- sets for local customers. This requirement, however, is not enforced. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The reserve requirement for local currency deposits is 26.5%. The reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was reintroduced in 1997. It was initially set at 12% on March 17 and increased to 12.5% on November 16, 1997. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls n .a. n.a. n.a. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts n.a. held by nonres iden ts Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions March 17. A 12% reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was reintroduced. November 16. The reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was increased to 12.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1950. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. There are two exchange rates: the rate resulting from the auctions and the rate used for debt conversion, which is L 2 per $1. The exchange rate for the lempira is determined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are required to sell all their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private individuals) bid at a price that cannot d i f fer from the base price set by the au thor i t ies by more than 5% in either direction. The base exchange rate is adjusted every f ive auctions according to changes in the d ifferen t ial between domestic and international in f la t ion and in the exchange rates of currencies of trading partners of Honduras w i th respect to the U.S. dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of foreign exchange from its agents. The m in imum amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Ind iv idua ls w i l l ing to purchase foreign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between $5,000 and $300,000. Foreign exchange agents may purchase for their own account to satisfy private demands lower than $5,000. The max imum amount of foreign exchange that can be purchased for this purpose is $30,000 for commercial banks and $10,000 for foreign exchange houses. Foreign exchange agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the pub l ic lower than $5,000 and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Auction rates may deviate from the base rate by ±5%. Auctions are held once each working day and each bidder can make up to three offers in each auction. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Trade transactions w i th the rest of Central America may be carried out in local cur- rencies or in U.S. dollars. Honduras is a member of CACM. Exchange control authorities The CBH exercises control. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Most of these arrears are w i th the Paris C lub creditors and may be rescheduled. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 403 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons are eligible. Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign currency notes in the ir vau l ts, (2) deposits in the CBH, (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (4) in- vestments in h igh - l iqu id i ty foreign ins t rumen ts, or (5) export or import f inanc ing ins t rumen ts. Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of arms and s im i lar items require a license issued by the M in is t ry of Defense. Import duties range up to 19%. Over 1,600 items from other Central American coun- tries are exempt from import duties, except for a 1.5% import surcharge. There are du ty - f ree and indu s t r ial processing zones that benefit from tar iff exemptions. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts All export earnings, except those from trade w i th other Central American countries, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses w i th in a period of 20 to 85 days. Proceeds from coffee exports must be surrendered w i t h in 20 days. Exporters are al- lowed to retain 30% of the ir foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for the ir authorized external obligations. Commercial banks and ex- change houses are required to sell all the purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 HONDURAS Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. No licenses are required, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. Bananas are subject to an export tax of $0.50 for a 40-pound box. However, produc- tion from newly planted areas is exempt, wh i le production from rehabilitated areas is subject to a $0.25 tax for a box. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are re- quired to fill out a form stating the purpose for wh ich the funds w i ll be used. There are no limits on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic f irms are permitted w i th the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale indu s t ry and commerce. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions on ac t iv i t ies invo lv ing the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for inves tment in mu tual funds. Foreign mu tual funds and s im i lar f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions must have perm iss ion to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or inves tment abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies The approval of congress is required for all pub l ic sector foreign borrowing. Pr iva te sector external debt contracts must be registered w i th the CBH for s ta t is t ical purposes on ly. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Inve s tmen ts are perm i t ted in all sectors w i thout res t r ic t ion, w i th the exception of defense-related indus t r ies, hazardous indu s t r ie s, and small-scale indu s t ry and com- merce. Inves tmen ts in hazardous industries require prior approva l. A ll fore ign inves t- ments must be registered w i th the Secretary of Economy and Trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 405 Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are location and size limitations, Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions n.a. No. Borrow ing abroad Borrowing requires CBH approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks must deposit abroad 38% of foreign exchange deposits held by the private sector. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required. Financial ins t i tu t ions may lend 50% of the ir foreign exchange deposits locally in for- eign exchange. Liquid asset requirements Foreign exchange deposits are subject to a 38% requirement. Credit controls Credit w i th 40% of funds from foreign exchange deposits must be granted to export- related ac t iv i t ies. The rema in ing 10% can be lent for importing. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws There is no securities law. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Janua ry 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Hunga ry is the Hunga r ian fo r in t. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Na t ional Bank of Hunga ry (NBH) adjusts the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the fo r int in accordance w i th a preannounced rate of crawl effected against a currency basket comprising the deutsche mark (70%) and the dollar (30%). On Ap r il 1, 1997, the mon th ly rate of depreciation against the basket of currencies was adjusted from 1.2% to 1.1%; then to 1.0% on August 15, 1997, and then to 0.9% on Janua ry 1, 1998. The off ic ial exchange rate is fixed at 11:00 a.m. every day against the basket and is calcu- lated for 20 convertible currencies and the ECU w i th in margins of 2.25%, but licensed banks are free to determine the ir own marg ins w i t h in the band. No. No. Commercial banks may engage in forward transactions at exchange rates negotiated freely between the banks and their customers. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions There are agreements w i th Brazil and Ecuador, under wh ich ou t s tand ing balances are settled every 90 days. There are agreements w i th Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Russia, and V ie tnam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clear- ing ruble balances w i th shipments of goods. Au tho r i ty for enforc ing foreign exchange regu la t ions is vested in the NBH. In compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 661, Hungary con t inues to ma in ta in payments restrictions against Iraq. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may take out of the country up to Ft 350,000 a trip, w i th- out a license. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency HUNGARY 407 Exports are limited to the equ iva lent of Ft 50,000 a person a t r ip, w i thout a license. Imports are limited to Ft 350,000 a person a tr ip. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident na tu ral persons may freely ma in ta in convertible currency accounts at authorized commercial banks. Resident ju r id ical persons may open convertible cur- rency accounts w i th funds o r ig ina t ing from a ll l ibera l ized items, but pr ior approval is required. Residents may hold, w i t h o ut perm iss ion, foreign exchange accounts abroad if they are work ing or s tay ing abroad, ma in ta in a resident office or are ma in contractors, or for the purpose of an i n i t i al capital deposit account in connection w i th mak ing ou tward foreign direct inve s tmen t. In all other cases, permission to hold foreign currency is required. Conversion is free in all liberalized items and in all au thor ized cases. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Convertible for int accounts may be credited w i th legally acquired fo r in t; proceeds from the conversion of convertible currency or fo r int acquired from non l ibera l ized or unau tho r ized transac t ions mu st be placed in a nonconver t ib le fo r int account, wh ich does not bear interest. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. A declaration s ta t ing the use of foreign exchange must be completed. Licenses are required for a number of products, inc lud ing imports destined for the settlement of ou ts tand ing balances in transferable or clearing rubles. About 95% of Hungar ian impor ts are f u l ly liberalized. Yes. Licenses are needed for products f a l l ing under the global quo ta on consumer goods. Yes. Goods for personal use brought in by re tu rn ing Hungar ian travelers are sub ject to a general import du ty of 15%, based on the actual invoice price w i th a du ty-free ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 HUNGARY allowance of Ft 8,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs du ty, goods for personal use up to a value equivalent to 40% of the ir earnings. Goods im- ported to Hungary are subjected to customs du t ies in accordance w i th the established and published tariffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be received in off ic ia l ly quoted convertible currencies, in Hun- garian for int from convertible for int accounts of nonresidents, or in nonconver t ib le currency. Proceeds in convertible currencies mu st be repatriated to Hungary upon receipt of the foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, stipulated in the law, or subject to specific approval by the NBH. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, the exporters are required to make a best effort to exchange those into convertible currency and repatriate the convertible currency. Foreign exchange receipts may be deposited in a foreign exchange account at a do- mestic bank and can be used for all liberalized transactions. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresidents may be deposited in convertible forint accounts w i th licensed banks, and nonresidents are allowed to convert balances in such accounts into foreign exchange for transfer abroad. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of items included in the negative list require a license. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds are subject to the same requirement as export proceeds. Resident natural persons are exempted. Resident jur id ical persons, except for transfers defined as international economic activities ( inc lud ing exports), are subject to the surrender requirement. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Transactions in OECD central government bonds, and bonds (in both cases w i th a ma tu r i ty of one year or longer) and shares of OECD-based enterprises w i th inves tment grade credit ra t ing, and the sale of shares of parent companies to the employees of its subs id iary company are free. For transactions in other in s t rumen t s, a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion is required. The au thor iza t ion is l ibera l ly granted, on a case-by-case ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 409 basis, after subm i t t ing a request and its accompanying documents. All proceeds asso- ciated w i th authorized transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad by nonresidents. The same regulations as for sale or issue by nonresidents apply. Funds required for transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. The transac- tion must take place through a resident brokerage company. These transactions are subject to authorization requirements for non-OECD bonds or debt securities, as for shares described above. The same regu la t ions as for sale or issue by nonresidents apply. Funds required for transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. The transac- tion must take place through a resident brokerage company. The perm iss ion of NBH is required for pub l ic or p r iva te offering of bonds and other debt securities issued by residents to foreigners or for l is t ing such securities at a rec- ognized securities market in a foreign country if the original maturity of such securi- ties is less than 365 days. (Bonds and other debt securities of resident issuers w i th a ma tu r i ty originally exceeding 365 days may be offered to foreigners w i thout a foreign exchange au thor isa t ion .) Pu rsuant to the Securities Act CXI (1996), such transactions are subject to the approval of the Hunga r ian Banking and Capital Markets Supervision. These transactions require a foreign exchange authorization, which is granted in ex- ceptional cases, on a case-by-case basis, after subm i t t ing a request and its accompany- ing documents. Proceeds associated w i th the transactions can be freely converted and transferred abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds require au tho r iza t ion, wh ich is granted in exceptional cases. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for transactions in money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions app ly as for transactions in money market ins trumen ts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Transactions for closed-end funds are free, but those for open-end funds requ ire au tho r iza t ion, w h i ch is granted in exceptional cases. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions requ ire authorization from the foreign exchange au tho r i ty, wh ich is granted in exceptional cases, on a case-by-case basis. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. A res ident may, w i thout the permission of the foreign exchange au tho r i ty, grant credit to a direct enterprise abroad owned by him or her, acquired in accordance w i th the Hunga r ian foreign exchange rules. The ma tu r i ty of such credit should exceed f ive years; otherwise, a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion is required. Credits between close relatives are free; in all other cases, a foreign exchange authorization is needed, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly in the case of long- and med ium - te rm credits and granted excep- t iona l ly in the case of short-term credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 HUNGARY To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Med ium- and long-term f in an c i al credits for enterprises are a l lowed. In other cases, au thor iza t ion f rom the fore ign exchange au tho r i ty (NBH) is requ i red, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly, on a case-by-case basis. Au tho r iza t ion from the NBH is needed for tak ing up short-term credits (w i th a m a t u r i ty not exceeding one year). As a rule, a resident ra is ing credit from a nonres ident may ava il h im se lf of the credit in the form of a bank t rans fer effected to an au tho r ized ( l icensed) cred it i n s t i t u t i on in Hunga ry. There is a cr i ter ia that the amount due in the f i rst year of the period of re- payment may not be h igher th an the amoun t, a s sum ing equal amo r t iza t ion paymen t s, for the f u ll period of repaymen t. Howeve r, there is no res tr ic t ion regard ing the amor t i- za t ion from the second year of the repayment period. These transactions are allowed if they are related to in te rna t ional commercial transac- t ions or if the guarantee is related to a cus toms du ty. In all other cases, a fo re ign ex- change au tho r iza t ion is needed, wh ich is granted l ib e r a l ly, on a case-by-case bas is. Equ i ty participation in a nonresident enterprise is considered as fore ign direct invest- ment and is free if the pa r t ic ipa t ion in the share or equ i ty cap i tal or the va lue of assets of the fore ign enterprise is more than 10%. The fo l low ing preconditions shou ld also be met: (1) the law of the coun try of incorporation shou ld a l low the t rans fer to H u n- gary of prof i ts and capital in conver t ib le foreign exchange; (2) the res iden t's l i ab i l i ty should not exceed (except in the case of a b ranch) its share in the enterprise; (3) the coun t ry of incorporation should be a member of the OECD, or there should be an inves tment protection agreement in place w i th the coun t ry; (4) the resident shou ld have no custom d u t y, tax, pension, hea l th insu rance, or social secur i ty con t r ibu t ion l i ab i l i ty ou ts tand ing; (5) the resident shou ld not be in b ank rup t cy or under l iqu id a t ion and no such action shou ld have been in i t ia ted aga inst him or her in the year of app l i- cation or the prev ious two calendar years; (6) du r ing the period stipulated above, there should be no negative decision against the inves tor made by the fore ign exchange a u t h o r i t y; and (7) du r ing the same period, no senior employee of the app l icant shou ld have been a senior member of the superv isory committee of an enterprise aga inst wh ich the foreign exchange au tho r i ty had made a nega t ive decision. If the p lanned inves tment does not meet any of the listed c r i te r ia, the app l ica t ion w i ll au toma t ica l ly fa ll under a foreign exchange au tho r i ty licensing procedure. Foreign inves tment may be es tab l ished, even in the case of f u l ly owned fore ign enter- prises, w i thout app rova l. From Janua ry 1, 1997, government approval is no longer required for foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion in banks. Jo int ven tures and f u l ly fore ign-owned enterprises may also be established in du ty - f ree zones. Such enterprises are considered Hunga r ian legal entities; however, due to the special s ta tus of du ty - f ree zones, they are exempted from several regulations. Mach ines and equ ipmen t, technical knowhow, and pa ten ts may q u a l i fy as foreign inves tmen t. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Guaran tee is given by law for the t rans fer of the fore ign inves tors' share of prof i ts, the invested cap i ta l, and cap i tal gains. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A foreign exchange au tho r i ty perm iss ion is required on a case-by-case basis, w h i ch is granted l ibe ra l ly af ter subm i t t ing a request and its accompany ing documents. Purchase locally by nonresidents App roval of local m u n i c i p al au tho r i t ies is requ i red. Controls on personal capital movements G i f ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A resident may donate convertible fore ign exchange or currency to a nonres iden t, provided au tho r iza t ion of the foreign exchange au tho r i ty (NBH) is granted. A resident may g ive a g i ft of p e cun i a ry va lue to a non res iden t, except for ( 1) the re s iden t 's share ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants HUNGARY 411 or pa r t ic ipa t ion in foreign direct inve s tmen t; (2) the r ight of owne rsh ip in respect of real estate abroad or in Hung a ry; and (3) securities, money market ins t rumen ts, and t rans fe rab le in s t rum en t s, w h i ch may be acquired by nonresidents w i th a foreign ex- change au tho r iza t ion. (The above-mentioned operations are l ibera l ized on ly in the case of close re la t ives .) A resident may establish an endowment abroad, or may jo in a foreign endowmen t, on ly w i th a foreign exchange au tho r iza t ion. This prov is ion also applies to an a s sump t ion of obligation serv ing pub l ic interest. On first leav ing Hunga ry for any of the member countries of the OECD, a pr iva te i n d i v i d u a l, who is en t i t led to emigrate, may take the fo l low ing out of the coun t ry w i t h o ut the pe rm iss ion of the foreign exchange au tho r i ty: (1) his pecun iary assets; (2) the currency or fore ign exchange o r ig ina t ing from the conversion of the domestic payment in s t rumen ts received for the sale of his domestic real estate; and (3) the for- eign exchange or currency o r ig ina t ing from the conversion of domestic payment in- s t rumen t^) deposited w i th a domestic credit in s t i tu t ion in a registered deposit, at least one year p r ior to becom ing a nonres iden t. If a na tu ral person, who is entitled to emigrate, emigrates to a coun try that is not a member coun t ry of the OECD, on f i rst leav ing Hunga ry, he may export pecun iary assets up to the va lue of Ft 1,000,000 w i t h o ut the pe rm iss ion of the foreign exchange au tho r i ty. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad F inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns mu st report a ll fore ign borrow ing to the NBH. Lending to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements E f fec t ive J an u a ry 1, 1997, short-term lend ing is allowed w i t h in the fo l low ing ru les: (1) Total ou t s t and ing lend ing to nonres iden ts shou ld not exceed 50% of the total amount of l iab i l i t ies in foreign exchange less the own capital of the bank in foreign exchange or the amount s t ipu la ted in the au tho r iza t ion from the foreign exchange au tho r i ty; and (2) A bank may not have an aggregate lend ing w i th an ind iv idu al borrower of more th an 25% of its adjusted cap i ta l. In the case of med ium- and long-term lend ing, a case- by-case foreign exchange au thor iza t ion is needed, wh ich is granted liberally after subm i t t ing a request and its accompanying documen ts. In the case of purchase of short-term securities w i th an or ig inal ma tu r i ty of less than one year, their aggregate amount should not exceed 50% of the total amount of liabilities in foreign exchange less the own cap i tal of the bank in foreign exchange. In that f igure, short-term lend ing shou ld also be inc luded. In the case of purchase of med ium- and long-term securities, the same rules app ly as for other residents. The g ran t ing of credits to foreigners by Hung a r i an f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns is, in most cases, l im i ted to credits w i th ma tu r i t ies of up to one year. Short-term lend ing locally to nonres iden ts is allowed w i t h in the framework s t ipu la ted above. Purchase of loca l ly issued fore ign-currency-denom ina ted securities is allowed, but a fore ign exchange au tho r i ty perm it is required to issue such securities; th is perm it is granted in excep t ional cases, on a case-by-case basis. As of November 1, 1997, the interest paid on obligatory reserves placed at the NBH on foreign exchange assets of banks is 14%, and interest paid on domestic currency assets is 13%. Interest rate controls n.a. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements As of November 1, 1997, the interest paid on obligatory reserves placed at the NBH on foreign exchange assets of banks is 14%, and interest paid on domestic currency assets is 13%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 HUNGARY Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The gross aggregate position is limited to 30% of the bank's adjusted cap i ta l. Banks should adhere to the l im it on a daily basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors In the case of insurance companies, these provisions are included in the Law on Insur- ance Companies and Insurance Activities (1995); in the case of pension fund s, in a Government Decree (1994); and in the case of mu tual fund s, in a law (1991). Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement April 1. The monthly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 1.1% from 1.2%. August 15. The monthly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 1.0% from 1.1%. Imports and import payments July 1. Import surcharges were eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on der iva t ives and other ins t rumen ts Controls on direct inves tment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors January 1. The issue and introduction of bonds w i th an original ma tu r i ty of one year or more and shares of OECD-based enterprises w i th investment-grade credit ra t ing as well as depository receipts issued thereof as negotiable ins trumen ts were liberalized. Residents may acquire the above securities through any resident brokerage f i rm. Short-term lending to nonresidents by banks was limited to 50% of total foreign ex- change liabilities (previously limited to 50% of foreign exchange liabilities from for- eigners). Futures and options transactions between two foreign currencies by banks were liberalized. January 1. Government approval is no longer required for foreign participation in banks. Previously, approval was required for participation exceeding 10% of equ i ty. November 1. Short-term lending to nonresidents, w i th in certain rules, was allowed. November L Interest paid on obligatory reserves placed at the NBH on foreign ex- change assets was set at 14%, and interest paid on domestic currency assets was set at 13%. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement January L The mon th ly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 0.9% from 1 .1%. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts January L Residents and nonresidents may, w i thout a license, take out of the coun t ry up to Ft 350,000 a tr ip. Impor ts of domestic currency are l im i ted to Ft 350,000 a per- son a tr ip. January 1, The legal grounds of liberalized and authorized transac t ions for cred i t ing a resident ju r id ical person's foreign exchange account kept w i th a licensed credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 413 Nonresident accounts in s t i tu t ion in Hunga ry was extended. The scope of operations of deposit accounts kept by residents abroad w i th foreign banks was also extended. January 1. The legal grounds of liberalized and authorized transactions for crediting a nonresident convertible HUF-account w i th for int was extended. Imports and import payments January 1. About 95% of the Hungar ian imports were fu l ly liberalized. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts Controls on credit operations Con tro ls on-direct inves tment Controls on real estate transactions January 1. The issue through placing or pub l ic sale and the introduction on a recog- nized domestic security market of shares or other securities of a participating nature and bonds or other debt securities w i th an original ma tu r i ty of more than one year, denominated in foreign exchange and issued by OECD-based enterprises, irrespective of their credit ra t ing by an international ra t ing agency, were liberalized. Residents may also purchase the above-mentioned securities and the depository receipts thereof, through resident brokerage companies, w i thout a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion. January 1. Residents may, w i thout a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion, undertake sure- ties, guaranties, or f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies or other f inanc ial obligations in favor of a resident's l iab i l i ty toward a nonresident, provided that the unde r ly ing transaction may also be concluded w i thout a foreign exchange authorization or prior reporting requirement. January L In addition to inves tmen ts in jo int ven tures and f u l ly foreign-owned enter- prises, restrictions on inves tmen ts in branches of foreign companies were eliminated. The requirements that the country of incorporation of a foreign company should be an OECD member coun try, and the existence of an inves tment protection agreement w i th the coun try of incorporation, were also e l im ina ted. January L Residents may acquire the ownersh ip of real estate or bu i ld real estate situated abroad w i thout a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion. The transaction has to be reported to the foreign exchange au tho r i ty w i th in eight days after the conclusion of the contract or the commencement of the bu i ld ing ac t iv i ty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona (p lu r a l: k ronu r ). A commemora t ive gold coin w i th face va lue of ISK 100 is legal tender, but it does not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The ex ternal va lue of the krona is pegged to a basket of 16 currencies: Belgian franc, Canadian do l la r, Dan ish krone, deutsche mark, F inn ish ma rkka, French franc, I ta l ian l i ra, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lder, No rweg ian krone, Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Iceland (CBI) intervenes in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate w i t h in a marg in of ± 6% around the central rate. No. No. Iceland has no organized forward market and the krona has no quoted forward ex- change rate. However, forward contracts can be freely negotiated in all currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce (MIC) has u l t ima te responsibilities for im- ports and, in consu l ta t ion w i th the CBI, for cap i tal movemen ts and foreign exchange regu la t ion. The CBI licenses the fore ign exchange dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting requ iremen ts for statistical purposes and for imp lemen ta t ion of con- trol on inwa rd foreign direct inves tmen t. Iceland no t if ied the IMF on Ju ly 31, 1992, tha t, in comp l iance w i th UN Secur i ty Council Reso lu t ion No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on pay- men ts and transfers for current in te rna t ional transac t ions w i th respect to the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). On December 1, 1995, Iceland no t if ied the IMF that exchange restrictions against L ibya had been imposed in accordance w i th UN Security Council Reso lu t ion No. 883 (1993). In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 415 Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Residents opening bank accounts abroad must provide the CBI w i th a no t i f ica t ion of their opening. All accounts in domestic banks must be iden t if ied by name and iden t if ica t ion numbe r. Res iden ts must in fo rm the CBI on opening of bank accounts abroad. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Banks must report to the CBI the mon th ly positions of nonresident accounts. All ac- counts in domestic banks must be iden t i f ied by name and iden t if ica t ion numbe r. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency All accounts in domestic banks must be iden t i f ied by name and iden t i f ica t ion numbe r. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Impor ts of foods and services are free, except when in te rna t ional agreements or pro- v is ions in the special leg is la t ion provide o therw ise. Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses L ive an ima ls and certain other ag r icu l tu ral products requ ire health certificates. Impor ts by tou r ist and foreign v is i tors do not require licenses. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. No. State import monopoly Tobacco can on ly be imported under state trad ing arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Exports of m i l i t a ry, f isher ies, and agr icu l tural products require licenses from the M in- is t ry of Foreign A f f a i rs and Foreign Trade. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 ICELAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments The purchase of shares or other equ i ty capital may be affected by laws on foreign in- vestment in Iceland. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt ins t ru- ments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other au thor i t ies are prohibited from issu ing debt ins tru- ments in Iceland un less permitted by the CBI. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are proh ib i ted from issu ing debt ins t ru- ments in Iceland un less permitted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Iceland are regulated by a special law on foreign inves t- ment: (1) foreign inves tment is prohibited in the fisheries and p r ima ry f ish processing indus t ry, as on ly resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered entities, where foreign ownersh ip does not exceed 25%, may f ish w i t h in the Icelandic f i sh ing l im it or operate p r ima ry f ish processing fac i l i t ies; th is l im it can be extended to 33% if the foreign inves tment in domestic entities does not exceed 5% of the total equ i ty; (2) inves tmen ts by foreign governments and pub l ic authorities are prohibited in Iceland; the MIC may grant exemptions from th is restriction and restrictions that fo l low, wh ich do not apply to residents of the EEA; (3) the owne rsh ip or right to harness wa terfa l ls and geothermal energy, where restrictions apply to inves tment in power production and d is t r ibu t ion companies; (4) inves tmen ts in domestic a i r l ines may not exceed 49%; and (5) the above and other special laws also s t ipu la te restricted conditions for resi- dency of managers and ma jo r i ty of vo t ing power in ho ld ing companies. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The conditions to own real estate in Iceland are: (1) i n d i v i d u al owners must be Ice- landic citizens; (2) in the case of un l im i ted companies, all owners must be Icelandic c i t izens; and (3) jo in t-s tock companies must be registered in Iceland, w i th at least 80% owned by Icelandic c i t izens, and all of the members of the board of directors be ing Icelandic c i t izens. Icelandic citizens must control the ma jo r i ty of the vo t ing power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be te rm ina ted w i th less th an one yea r 's notice. However, a company that is granted an opera t ing license in Iceland may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 417 acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry w i th it the r ight to exploit natural resources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least f ive years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No limits are imposed on portfolios invested locally or abroad. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Currency The currency of Ind ia is the Ind ian rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements C lear ing agreements The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the in terbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) purchases spot dollars from authorized persons at the ir designated offices or branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. No. No. Au thor ized dealers (ADs) are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. For- ward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees w i th banks abroad are prohibited. The RBI has on occasion purchased or sold forward dollars. The RBI may enter in to swap transactions w i th ADs, under wh ich it buys/sells spot dollars and sells/buys forward dollars for ma tur i t ies available in the market. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange f luc tua t ion w i th respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract. Exchange cover is offered in Au s t ra l ian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, U .A .E. d i rham s, pounds sterling, and dollars. For paymen ts specified in other conver t ib le currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are d iv ided into two groups: (1) Member coun tr ies of the ACU (except Nepal). All paymen ts on account of eligible current in terna t ional transactions, except paymen ts relating to travel, must be settled through the ACU arrangement. In other cases, payments may be settled in any permit- ted currency. Expor t- import transactions financed out of loans f rom in terna t ional fi- nanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns are settled ou ts ide the ACU mechan ism. On J u ly 6, 1997, ADs and commercial banks in ACU countries were allowed to transfer ACU do l lars among themse lves instead of rou t ing the t ransac t ions th rough the ir respective central banks. (2) The external group (all other countries). Payments to these countries may be made in Indian rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permit- ted currency, and receipts from these countries may be obtained in Ind ian rupees from accounts of a bank situated in any of these countries or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may apply w i th respect to exports under lines of credit ex- tended by the government of Ind ia to the governments of certain foreign countries. Yes. The RBI stands ready to purchase, sell spot, and sell fo rwa rd currencies of the member countries of the ACU. Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the RBI does not deal in Nepalese rupees. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Dec is ion No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency INDIA 419 Exchange control is adm in is tered by the RBI in accordance w i th the general policy laid down by the government in consultation w i th the RBI. Much of the rou t ine work of exchange control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. Since Janua ry 30, 1997, the RBI is responsible for app rov ing applications for foreign cur- rency loans under a $3 m i l l ion scheme, and for approv ing app l ica t ions for short-term loans/credits w i th ma tu r i t ies of less than three years. Yes. Yes. No. There are no res tr ic t ions on in te rnal trade in gold. However, gold mines con t inue to sell gold to indu s t r i al users th rough the d i s t r ibu t ion ne twork of the State Bank of Ind ia (SBI) as we ll as th rough market sales. Forward t rad ing in gold or s i lver is proh ib i ted. Apa rt from a few agencies authorized by the governmen t, nine banks are authorized by the RBI to import gold for sale in the domestic market. Exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry produced in Ind ia for exportation w i th a gold value not exceeding 10% of the total va lue, and jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the per- sonal effects of a trave ler, are prohibited subject to certain monetary l im i ts, un less effected by or on beha lf of the mone tary au thor i t ies. The net exportation of gold from Ind ia is not permitted. Exporters of jewe l ry may import the ir essential inpu ts such as gold w i th import licenses granted by the licensing au tho r i ty. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supp ly gold or silver in advance and free of charge for the manu fac- ture and u l t ima te export of gold or silver jewe l ry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewe l ry and Ar t ic les Export Promotion and Rep len ishment Scheme, exporters of gold j ew e l ry and articles are entitled to rep len ishment of gold th rough the designated branches of the SBI, or any other agency nom ina ted by the M in i s t ry of Commerce, at a price indicated in the certificate issued by the SBI after the purchase of the gold. The Scheme is l im i ted to exports that are supported by an irrevocable LC, payment of cash on a de l ivery basis, or advance payment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold j ew e l ry may also be allowed on a collection basis (documents against accep- tance). The exporter has the option to ob ta in gold from the SBI in advance. On presen- ta t ion of the required documen ts, the appropr ia te release order and gem rep len ishment license may be issued by the licensing au tho r i ty, provided that the exporters sa t is fy va lue added and other requ i remen ts under the Scheme. Special perm iss ion for impor ts of gold and s i lver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is invo lved or the metals are needed for a pa r t icu lar purpose. Special perm iss ion is also granted when the gold or silver is im- ported for processing and reexportation, provided that paymen ts for the impor ta t ion w i ll not be required; the en t ire quan t i ty of metal imported w i ll be reexported in the form of jewe l ry; and the va lue added w i ll be repatriated to Ind ia in foreign exchange th rough an AD. In general, the expo r ta t ion of Ind i an cu r rency notes and coins, except to B h u t an and Nepa l, is p roh ib i ted. The expor ta t ion to Nepal of I n d i an currency notes in denom ina- t ions h igher than Rs 100 is also proh ib i ted. However, resident Ind ians may take w i th them Ind ian cu r rency notes not exceeding Rs 1,000 a person at any one t ime to coun- tries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary v i s i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically INDIA ADs, exchange bureaus, and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangla- desh and up to $50 or its equ iva lent to those going to other countries except Bhu tan, Bangladesh, and NepaL Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $2,500), less the amoun ts sold to ADs and authorized money changers in India. The importation of Ind ian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any per- son may bring in Indian currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Nepal. Ind ian travelers may bring in up to Rs 1,000 a person if they previously took out th is amount when trave l ing abroad on a temporary v i s i t. Foreign currency notes may be brought in w i thout l im i t, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon a r r ival if the va lue of foreign notes, coins, and trave ler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equ iva lent and/or if the ag- gregate value of foreign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds $2,500 or its equ iva len t. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The accounts of Ind ians and of Bhu tanese and Nepalese na t iona ls residing in Bhu tan and Nepal, as we ll as the accounts of of- fices and branches of Ind ian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese f i rm s, companies, or other organizations in Bhu tan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts. However, resi- dents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Ras tra Bank. Yes. Approval of the RBI is required for the opening of foreign currency accounts, except for those covered by general permission granted by the RB I. Held abroad These accounts are perm i t ted, but prior approval is required. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Accounts related to all fore ign countries other than Bhu tan and Nepal are treated as nonresident accounts. (1) Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idua ls or f i rms may be credited w i th: (a) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal bank ing channels, balances sold by the account ho lder in any pe rm i t- ted currency du r ing his or her v is it to Ind ia, or balances transferred from rupee ac- counts of nonresident banks; and (b) leg i t ima te dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Rs 100,000, the au tho r ized dealers are required to ascertain the bona fide na ture of the transaction before crediting the account. ADs may debit the ord inary nonresident rupee accounts for all local d isbursemen ts, inc lud- ing inves tmen ts in Ind ia that are covered by the general or special permission of the RBI. (2) Nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts may be opened for nonres iden ts of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or o r ig in, or for overseas companies and p a r tn e r sh ip f i rms of wh i ch at least 60% is owned by nonres iden ts of Ind ian n a t ion a l i ty or o r ig in. In add i t ion to ADs ho ld ing licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion Act (FERA ), some state cooperative banks and certain u rban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not ho ld ing such licenses have also been pe rm i t ted by the RBI to open and m a in t a in nonres ident rupee accounts, subject to cer ta in cond i t ions. Such accounts may also be opened for e l ig ib le persons du r ing temporary v i s i ts to Ind ia against the tender of foreign currency t rave le r 's checks, notes, or coins. They may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 421 credited w i th new funds rem i t ted th rough bank ing channe ls f rom the coun t ry of resi- dence of the account holder or from any coun try. They may also be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency trave ler's checks, personal checks, and d ra f ts in the name of the account holder; w i th foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder wh i le in Ind ia; and w i th income from authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or the foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) ac- counts is also allowed. Since January 16, 1997, ADs have been permitted to effect transfers of funds between NRER accounts of d ifferent persons held w i th the same AD or d i f fe rent ADs for any purpose. The accounts may be debited for disbursement in Ind ia and for transfers abroad. Deb i t ing is also permitted for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RB I. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency and rupee t rave le r 's checks or t rave le r 's LC for the use of the account holder and his or her fam i ly and dependents. Inves tmen ts in the shares of Ind ian companies, in pa r tne rsh ip f i rms and the like, or in immovab le prop- erty may be made w i th the approval of the RBI. Interest on deposits in nonres ident external accounts in any bank in Ind ia is exempt from the personal income tax, al- though ju r id i c al persons are not entitled to th is exemption. Interest earnings are trans- ferable. The balances held in such accounts by na tu ral persons are exempt from the wea l th tax; g i f ts to close relatives in Ind ia from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the g i ft tax. (3) FCNR accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds s ter l ing, or do l lars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin and by overseas companies as specified above. These accounts may be credited w i th amoun ts received th rough no rmal bank ing channe ls, in c lud ing interest ea rn ings. Balances may be repatriated at any t ime w i thout reference to the RBI. Balances may also be used for the purposes for wh ich debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Since Janua ry 16, 1997, ADs have been permitted to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of d i f fe rent persons ma in ta ined w i th the same AD or other ADs for any pur- pose, subject to certain conditions. The current FCNR accounts operate in the same manner as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issu ing bank (not the RB I) provides the exchange rate guarantee on deposit balances. (4) Nonresident (nonrepa tr iab le) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresi- dent Ind ian (NR I) na t iona ls, overseas corporate bodies owned p redom inan t ly by NRI na t iona ls, and foreign c i t izens of non - Ind ian origin (except Pakistani and Bangladeshi na t iona ls ). These accounts may be opened w i th funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from ex is t ing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any t ime. The transfer abroad of accru ing interest is permitted. Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Imports and Import Payments No. n .a. n .a. n .a. The impo r ta t ion of the fo l low ing is restricted: (1) certain specified precious, semipre- cious, and other stones; (2) safety, security, and related items; (3) seeds, p lan ts, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 INDIA Negative l ist an ima ls; (4) insecticides and pesticides; (5) drugs and Pharmaceu t ica ls; (6) chem ica ls and allied i tems re la t ing to the sma l l-sca le sector; and (7) most consumer goods and cer ta in other i tems. Impor ta t ion of ta l low, fat and/or oils rendered or unrendered of any an im al o r ig in, an imal rennet, w i ld an ima ls ( inc lud ing the ir parts and produc ts), and ivo ry is proh ib- ited. Impor ts from Fiji and Iraq are also proh ib i ted. Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system The impo r ta t ion of certain specified types of petroleum products, fe r t i l ize rs, ed ib le and nonedible oils, seeds, and cereals is channe l led th rough the state t rad ing enter- prises, i.e., Ind ian Oil Corporation Ltd., M ine ra ls and Me ta ls Trading Corporation of Ind ia Ltd., State Trading Corporation of Ind ia Ltd., and the Food Corporation of Ind ia. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated by the due date of receipt or w i t h in six mon ths of sh ip- men t, wh ichever is earlier. Regard ing exports made to Ind ian -owned warehouses abroad established w i th the perm iss ion of the RB I, a period of up to 15 mon ths is allowed for the rea l iza t ion of export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain per- m iss ion from the RBI th rough ADs in the event that the export va lue is not realized w i t h in the prescribed period. The RBI also adm in is te rs a scheme under wh ich engi- neer ing goods (capital goods and consumer durab les) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the f u ll export va lue is paid in ins ta l lmen ts over more than six mon ths. Exporters are permitted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in fore ign currency accounts w i th banks in Ind ia. In the case of 100% export-oriented un i t s, u n i ts in export processing zones, and un i ts in hardware /sof tware technology parts, up to 70% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. On February 28, 1997, the scope of the Export Earners' Foreign Currency (EEFC) accounts was broadened by p rov id ing fac i l i t ies to account holders to (1) open offices abroad and to meet the expenses of these offices; and (2) make inves tmen ts from the account balance in overseas jo int ven tu res up to the l im it of $15 m i l l i on w i t h o ut reference to the RB I. The use of f u n ds held in EEFC accounts maintained by ind iv idual account holders for all the ir bona f ide personal purposes (e.g., travel or medical trea tment abroad for them se lves or the ir f am i ly members, educa t ional expenses of the ir ch i ldren s tudy ing abroad) was allowed on Ma rch 5, 1997. On May 2, 1997, corporate exporters were perm i t ted to extend trade-related advances to the ir impor ter c l ien ts out of the ir EEFC accounts up to $3,000 for each EEFC account w i t h o ut ob ta in ing RBI approval. On Augu st 12, 1997, all exporters were allowed to extend trade-related advances to the ir impo rt c l ien ts out of th e ir EEFC accounts up to $15,000. Licenses are requ ired for exports of m ine ral ores and concentrates and chem ica l s, i n c l u d i ng those specified in the UN Conven t ion on Chem ical Weapons. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Adm in i s t r a t ive expenses Commissions Quantitative limits A ll bona fide cu r rent account t ransac t ions q u a l i fy for the release of fo re ign exchange either under the au tho r i ty delegated to ADs or after ob ta in ing the necessary approval from the RB I. n.a. ADs are perm i t ted to a l low cash rem i t tances of comm iss ions on exports up to 12.5% of invoice va lue. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. INDIA 423 Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittances are allowed after all taxes and other l iab i l i t ies have been paid. Yes. Yes. Yes. Remittances are allowed, subject to certain conditions, provided that all current taxes and other l iab i l i t ies have been cleared. Yes. n.a. Yes. Up to $3,000 a person a year may be released by ADs and full-fledged money chang- ers for one or more trips abroad, except for visits to Bhu tan and Nepal. The limits for various categories of business travel are as follows: (1) the per diem for senior execu- tives is $500 and for others $350; and (2) Ind ian f i rms participating in trade fairs/exhibitions, and private printers and publishers w i sh ing to participate in overseas book fa irs and exh ib i t ions can obtain un l im i ted exchange from ADs, subject to render- ing accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits ADs have been delegated the power to release foreign exchange in line w i th the esti- mate of overseas doctor/hospital costs. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits ADs have been delegated the power to release foreign exchange for higher studies abroad up to $30,000. n.a. n.a. The l im it for these transactions is $25,000 or its equivalent. International credit cards may be used by the cardholder to effect remittances for subscriptions to foreign magazines, journals, and access fees for internet-related services through websites based abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits The $10,000 l im it on remittances for legal expenses in connection w i th trade-related transactions was removed on January 1, 1998. However, remittances exceeding $100,000 or its equ iva lent remain subject to prior permission. The l im it for remit- tances by Indian shipping companies for fees of solicitors and adjusters is $25,000, and there is no l im it for remittances to foreign data service vendors for the use of in- ternational databases. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign workers, except those from China and Pakistan, are permitted to make reason- able remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 INDIA families, and for other expenses. ADs may allow such remittances of up to 75% of the net income of a foreign worker, provided that the worker holds a valid employment visa. ADs may also allow such remittances in excess of 75% of net income, provided the remittance meets prerequisites and the worker's fam i ly is staying abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Gambling/prize earnings Remittances of earnings from sweepstakes/lotteries are not permitted. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Yes. n.a. n.a. ADs can allow remittances of up to $5,000 a year for maintenance of a resident's de- pendents abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Credit card use abroad Persons going abroad for any purpose (except for employment/emigration) can use international credit cards for all purposes, including for the purchase of articles for personal use w i th in their entitlement of foreign exchange. The basic travel quota can also be obtained through the use of credit cards. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Up to 50% of receipts may be retained in foreign currency accounts w i th banks in Ind ia. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign ins t i tu t ional investors (FIIs) are permitted to make inves tmen ts in all securi- ties traded on the pr imary and secondary markets, inc lud ing equ i ty and other securi- ties, and ins trumen ts of companies listed on the stock exchange in Ind ia. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated government securities, e i ther on behalf of clients or us ing proprietary fund s. FIIs are required to register in i t ia l ly w i th the Securities and Ex- change Board of Ind ia (SEBI) and w i th the RBI. There is no restriction on the va lue of investments by FIIs in the primary and secondary markets, but inves tment in debt ins t rumen ts may not exceed 30% of total inves tmen t. Portfolio inves tmen ts in p r ima ry or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 10% of the issued share capital for ind iv idual FII holdings and 24% of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, w i th the exception of (1) foreign inves tmen ts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents INDIA 425 under f inanc ial collaboration; and (2) inves tmen ts through offshore single and re- gional fund s, global depository receipts, and convertibles in the Euromarket. The overall ceiling of 24% is inc lus ive of inves tment by NRIs/overseas corporate bodies (OCBs) through the secondary market, and can be increased to 30% if the concerned company passes a special resolution in its general body and a resolution by its board of directors to that effect. Nonresidents are not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In regard to securities of Ind ian companies held by nonresidents, transfers to a resident must be confirmed by the RBI. Transfers of sale proceeds are permitted, subject to tax, pro- vided no restrictions were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds wh i le approv- ing the original inves tmen t. Transfers between two nonresidents do not require such conf irma t ion, but a nonresident transferee requires permission for the purchase of shares of an Ind ian company. RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any foreign secu- r i ty. If the acquisition is permitted, transfer of the needed funds from India is also permitted. In the case of a sale of foreign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to India is required, unless otherwise specified. Indians who have returned to Ind ia after a m in imum continuous stay of one year abroad have been exempted from the require- ment of ob ta in ing RBI permission for con t inu ing to hold securities already purchased prior to their re turn to Ind ia out of incomes earned by them while abroad. They are also free to use sales proceeds of such securities for acquisition of fu r ther securities w i thout permission of the RB I. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations app ly as for purchases abroad by residents, Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents NR Is and overseas corporate bodies (predom inan t ly those owned to the ex tent of at least 60% by ind iv idu a ls of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or or ig in and resident outside of Ind ia) are allowed to invest in money market mu tual funds floated by commercial banks and pub l ic or pr iva te sector f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions w i th au thor iza t ion from the RBI or the SEBI on a non repa t r ia t ion basis. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transac t ions require RBI approva l. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not perm i t ted to purchase such ins t rumen ts abroad w i thout the au tho r i- za t ion of the RB I. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions are not permitted. On collective inves tment securities Resident companies are not permitted to issue securities to nonresidents w i thout the approval of the RB I. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of collective inves tment securities by nonresidents on local markets in Ind ia is not perm i t ted. Non res iden ts may acquire foreign securities w i thout authorization f rom the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions requ ire the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions requ ire perm iss ion from the RBI; the Un it Trust of Ind ia has been granted permission for i s su ing certain securities abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Res ident compan ies are not permitted to issue rupee-based der iva t ives and other in- s t rumen ts in Ind i a. Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts These t ran sac t ions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs are a l lowed to purchase hedge in s t rumen ts for corporate c l ien ts and for the ir own asse t / l iab i l i ty managemen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 INDIA Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A commercial credit of up to six mon ths is allowed regarding exports on documents- against-acceptance terms. Contracts for exports invo lv ing paymen ts to be realized beyond the normal period of six mon ths are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permitted keeping in m ind the credit terms offered, the commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. This applies to turnkey /cons truc t ion/ service contracts under taken by Ind ian exporters on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the EX IM Bank offers credits to foreign buyers in connection w i th the export of cap i tal goods and tu rnkey projects in Ind ia in par t ic ipa t ion w i th commercial banks in Ind ia. These are considered by EXIM Bank depending upon the creditwor- th iness, the s tand ing and f inanc ial position of the overseas borrower, the economic v i ab i l i ty of the project, and the s tand ing of the Ind ian exporter. Short-term loans and credits ma tur ing w i th in one year are considered by the RBI on the ir terms and conditions in comparison w i th the terms offered in overseas markets. Proposals for ra is ing foreign currency loans and credits, i.e., buye r 's credits; sup- p l ie r 's credits; or lines of credit by f i rm s, companies, or lend ing in s t i tu t ion s, for fi- nanc ing the cost of goods, technology, or for any other purpose require approval from the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). On March 31, 1997, exporters were allowed to raise External Commercial Borrow ing (ECB) to twice the average amount of annual exports du r ing the prev ious three years, subject to a m a x im um of $100 m i l l ion w i thout end- use restrictions (i.e., general corporate objectives exc lud ing inves tment in stock mar- kets or in real estate). The max imum level of entitlement in any one year is the cumu- la t ive l im it and debt ou ts tand ing under the ex is t ing $15 m i l l ion exporters' scheme, wh ich is netted out to determine annual e l ig ib i l i ty. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transac t ions requ ire prior perm iss ion from the RBI. To residents from nonresidents The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured from nonresident persons and companies in c lud ing banks, as well as repayment of such loans and cred- i ts, and paymen ts of interest and other charges on such loans, require prior permission from the RB I. Bo r row ing proposals, except for loans for less than one year and those fa l l ing under the $3 m i l l ion scheme, must be cleared by the MOF before they may be approved by the RB I. On March 31, 1997, the fo l low ing changes were made: (1) ECBs were permitted to be used for rupee expend i ture extended to roads ( in c lud ing bridges), ports, indu s t r ial parks and u rban in f r a s t ru c tu re (water supp ly, san i ta t ion, and sewage projects, as defined in Section 80 1A of Income Tax Act (1961 ) ), in add i t ion to the p rev iou s ly designated sectors of power, te lecommun ica- tions, and ra i lways; (2) Holding companies/promoters were permitted to raise ECBs to the equ iva lent of $50 m i l l ion to f inance equity inves tment in a subsidiary company imp lemen t ing in f ras t ruc tu re projects; (3) Corporate borrowers able to raise long-term resources w i th an average ma tu r i ty of 10 years and 20 years were allowed to use the ECB proceeds up to $100 m i l l ion and $200 m i l l ion, respectively, w i thout any end-use restrictions (i.e., general corporate objectives) excluding inves tmen ts in the stock mar- ket or in real estate; (4) Corporate borrowers were permitted to raise ECBs to acquire sh ips and vessels from Ind ian shipyards; (5) Corporate borrowers who had raised ECBs for the import of capital goods and services through bonds/floating rate notes (FRNs)/syndicated loans were permitted to rem it funds in to India and deploy the same, exc lud ing inves tmen ts in the stock market or in real estate, un t il their actual import of cap i tal goods and services takes place or up to one year, wh ichever is less. In case borrowers decide to deploy the funds abroad u n t il the approved end-use re- qu i rement arises, they were e l ig ib le to do so in l ine w i th ex is t ing RBI gu ide l ines. However, ECBs of an average ma tu r i ty of 10 years and above wou ld be ou ts ide the ECB ce i l ing; and (6) ECB l im i ts for te lecommun ica t ions projects were made more f lex ib le, and an increase of the total project cost to 50% from 35% was allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 427 Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents These t ransac t ions requ ire au tho r iza t ion from the RB I. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd d irect inv e s tm ent The RBI has permitted ADs to grant loans to residents against guarantees from non- residents, sub jec t, in ter a l ia, to the cond i t ion that no direct or ind irect payment is made abroad by way of guaran tee, comm iss ion, or otherwise. Inves tmen ts are subject to app roval of the RB I. Proposals for pa r t ic ipa t ion in overseas j o i nt ven tu res, the setting up of wh o l ly owned subs id ia r ies abroad that i n v o l ve rem i t- tance of cash, and export of goods from Ind ia, are considered in l ight of such factors as the f inanc ial pos i t ion and track record of the app l icant Ind ian company; the past export performance; and the benef i ts likely to accrue in terms of foreign exchange earn ings by way of exports, technology transfer, prof i ts, and d iv idends. ADs have been permitted to allow inves tmen ts up to $15 m i l l ion ( inc lus ive of inves tment ap- proved under the fast track route by the RBI) in a block of three years out of f u n ds held by the I n d i an inves tors in the ir EEFC accounts. Foreign equ i ty up to 50%, 51%, and 74% is pe rm i t ted by the RBI in specified h igh- p r io r i ty indus t r ies on an au toma t ic basis. The RBI also a l lows foreign equ i ty ho ld ings up to 51% in t rad ing companies p r im a r i ly engaged in export ac t iv i t ies. Other applica- tions require clearance from the government of Ind ia. A liberal policy is fo l lowed for inves tmen ts in Ind ia by nonresidents of Ind ian or ig in or overseas corporate bodies p redom inan t ly owned by such persons. Foreign companies are also perm i t ted to set up l ia ison offices in I n d ia for the purpose of ca r ry ing on l ia ison ac t iv i t ies, provided the ir entire expenses are rem i t ted from abroad. App l ica t ions for inves tment in areas that do not fa ll w i t h in the au tho r i ty of the RBI but that are covered by the fore ign inve s tment po l icy are approved by the Foreign Inv e s tm ent Promotion Board (FIPB). Such in- ves tmen ts may be approved up to 100% of cap i tal on a case-by-case basis. The M in is- try of Indus t ry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct inves tmen t, inc lud ing approva ls. In the case of coal, hyd ro, and nonconven t ional energy-based power projects, the Power M in i s t ry may grant au toma t ic approvals of up to 100% fore ign equ i ty under cer ta in cond i t ions. Nonres iden ts, nonc i t izens, and nonbank com- panies not incorporated und er Ind i an law mu st have pe rm iss ion from the RBI to i n i t i- ate, expand, or con t inue any bus iness ac t iv i ty in I n d ia and to hold or acqu ire shares of any company ca r ry ing on a t rad ing, commercial, or indu s t r i al ac t iv i ty in Ind ia. Nonresidents of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin may invest freely in any pub l ic or pr iva te l im i ted company or in any par tnersh ip or proprietary concern engaged in any ac t iv i ty except ag r icu l tu ral or p lan ta t ion ac t iv i t ies and real estate business (exc lud ing real estate deve lopmen t, such as cons t ruc t ion of houses, etc.), prov ided that (1) f u n ds for inve s tment are either remitted from abroad th rough no rmal bank ing channe ls or d r awn from the ir non res ident accounts; (2) repa tr ia t ion of the capital invested or the p ro f i ts and d iv idends a r i s ing the re f rom w i ll not be requested; and (3) overall l im i ts on ho ld- ings of shares and conve r t ib le deben tures bought th rough the stock exchange by non- resident I n d i a ns (see be low) are adhered to. Overseas compan ies, societies, and pa r tne r sh ip f i rms of wh i ch at least 60% is owned by non res iden ts of I n d i an n a t ion a l i ty or o r ig in, and overseas t rus ts in wh ich at least 60% of the bene f ic ial in terest is irrevocably held by NR Is are also allowed to invest in any pub l ic or p r iva te l im i ted company, in accordance w i th the above p rov is ions. NR Is and overseas compan ies, as def ined above, may use funds derived f rom fresh rem i t tances or held in the ir non res ident (ex te rna l) or foreign currency (non res iden t) accoun ts to ( 1) make po r t fo l io inve s tmen ts w i th repa t r ia t ion bene f i ts up to 1% of the cap i ta l, in the case a company so decides th rough a general body re so lu t ion, p rov ided th at th e ir total ho ld ings of shares and conve r t ib le debentures held on e i ther a repa tr i- able or non repa t r iab le basis by all non res ident inve s to rs do not exceed 5%, 24%, or 30% of the pa id -up capital of the company or of the total pa id -up va lue of each series of conve r t ib le deben tures issued by the company; (2) invest freely in na t ional sav ings cer t if ica tes w i th f u ll repa t r ia t ion benef i ts; (3) inve st up to 40% of the new equ i ty ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 INDIA cap i tal issued by a company setting up indus tr ial manu fac tu r ing projects; hospitals ( inc lud ing diagnostic centers); hotels of at least three-star category; and shipping, software, and oil exploration services w i th repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; (4) place up to 100% in new invest- ments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries w i th free repatriation of such investments. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. Trading companies must be registered w i th the M in is- try of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of their status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the RBI for remittances or dividends. The RBI has the au thor i ty to permit foreign investment of up to 51% of the pa id -up capital of such Indian companies. A h igher percentage, up to 100%, is consid- ered for approval by the FIPB, provided that the fund ing company is p r ima r i ly en- gaged in exports. Existing jo in t-ven ture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equ i ty shares to 51% of their capital through expansion of the ir capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign investor. Firms in certain manu fac tu r ing industries and tour ist indus tr ies can obtain RBI automatic approval for the expansion; (5) invest on a nonrepatriable basis in money market mu tual funds (only NR Is and OCBs), subject to RBI approval; (6) invest up to 51% of equ i ty on a repatriable basis in un l is ted companies in all indus tr ies except those mentioned in Annex III of the Statement of Indu s t r ial Policy (1991); and (7) issue shares to foreign investors of up to 50%, 51%, or 74%, if those Indian companies issu ing the shares were engaged in specified h igh pr ior i ty indus t r ies, subject to f u l f i l l i ng certain conditions. The RBI granted permission for such transactions on Janua ry 17, 1997, and has also granted general permission to Ind ian companies to issue shares to foreign investors up to the level approved by the government of Ind ia (M in is try of Indus t ry ). Sale of shares, securities, and immovab le property requires approval of the RB I. Repa- triation of after-tax sale proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition on nonrepatriation was imposed when approving the or ig inal investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require the permission of the RB I. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Ind ians who have returned to Ind ia after a m i n im um con t inuous stay of one year abroad are permitted to hold immovab le property acquired w i th f u n ds earned wh i le they were abroad. They are also free to dispose of such property or acquire new prop- erty from the sale proceeds of such property. NR Is and overseas companies (predom inan t ly owned by NR Is) may invest in compa- nies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.); up to 100% of new investments may be required to be locked in for a period of three years for disinvestment. After three years, remittances of d is inves tment w i ll be allowed up to the original inves tment in foreign exchange. In the cases of overseas corporate bodies, prof i ts may be repatriated up to 16%. Repa tr ia t ion of after-tax sale proceeds is generally perm i t ted, provided no cond i t ion on nonrepa tr ia t ion was imposed wh i le approv ing the o r ig inal inves tmen t. Loans These transactions requ ire the approval of the RBI. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents ADs are allowed to perm it remittances of g i f ts up to $1,000 a year by residents. To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets n.a. n .a. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions requ i re the approval of the RB I. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls INDIA 429 Borrow ing is subject to approval by the government of India, the MOF, and the De- par tment of Economic A f fa i rs. ADs may ava il themselves of loans, overdraf ts, and other types of fund-based credit fac i l i t ies from the ir overseas branches and correspon- dents up to 15% of the ir un impa i red Tier I capital. However, outside th is l im it are nostro balances ar is ing on account of FCNR(B), EEFC, resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts, escrow deposits, and overn ight inves tmen ts. Loans or overdraf ts in excess of th is l im it may be obtained solely for the purpose of replenishing the dealers' rupee resources in Ind ia w i thout prior approval from the RBI. Repayment of such borrowing requires pr ior approval from the RBI or may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in Ind ia from the RBI or any other bank or f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repaymen t. There are no restrictions on ADs ma in ta in ing accounts abroad. In all other cases (e.g., airlines and sh ipp ing companies), specific permission by the RBI is required. The RBI has granted general permission to certain categories of persons to maintain fore ign currency accounts abroad for specific purposes, subject to certain cond i t ions. Lending is subject to RBI approval on a case-by-case basis and was set at a l im it of $10 m i l l ion on Ap r il 15, 1997. However, ADs have been permitted to invest the ir temporary surp lus funds in foreign treasury b i l ls and make deposits w i th banks abroad subject to a limit of 15% of their Tier I capital. Banks may lend to residents to meet bona f ide foreign exchange requ iremen ts toward presh ipment credit in foreign currency for f in an c ing domestic inpu ts. Banks can also use the ir FCNR deposit resources to grant loans to residents for the ir bona f ide fore ign currency requirements. No scheme is in place a l low ing for these transac t ions. Wh i le interest rates on resident deposits for maturities of over two years have been completely deregulated, interest rates on FCNR (banks), wh i ch must be aligned w i th the in te rna t ional rates, are decided by the RBI. Interest rates on nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit schemes are deregulated for all ma tu r i t ies. On March 31, 1997, the interest rate l im it on ECBs for project f inanc ing was allowed spreads of up to 350 basis po in ts above LIBOR/U.S. treasury b i l ls. Corporate en t i t ies were also allowed to raise 50% of the perm iss ib le debt in the form of subord ina ted debt at a h igh ter interest rate. Credit controls n.a. D i f fe ren t ial t rea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Nonresident deposits under FCNR(B) nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposits (NR (R )D) and l iab i l i t ies under the NRER scheme are exempt from cash reserve re- qu i remen ts. On Ap r il 15, 1997, the cash reserve ra t io (CRR) on nonres ident deposits was reintroduced. Banks are required to ma in ta in on an ongoing basis Tier I capital at 5% of the open position l im it approved by the RBI, and the overall open position l im it should have a reasonable re la t ion to the cap i tal of the bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non re s iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 INDIA L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad On October 21, 1997, SEBI-registered India fund managers, inc lud ing mu tual fund s, were perm i t ted to invest in the overseas market, subject to an i n d i v i d u al ce i l ing of $50 m i l l ion and an aggregate ce i l ing of $500 m i l l ion. L im i ts (m in .) on po r t fo l io invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies compos i t ion n.a. n .a. Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1997 January 30. The RBI was made responsible for app rov ing applications for foreign currency loans under the $3 m i l l ion scheme and for approv ing applications for short- term loans/credits w i th ma tur i t ies of less than three years. July 6. ADs and commerical banks in ACU countries were allowed to transfer ACU dollars among themselves instead of rou t ing the transac t ions on ly th rough the ir re- spective central banks. January 16. ADs were permitted to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of d i f fe rent persons ma in ta ined w i th the same AD or other ADs for any purpose, sub- ject to certain conditions. ADs were permitted to effect transfer of funds between NRER accounts of d i f fe rent persons held w i th the same AD or d i f fe rent ADs for any purpose. October 21. Interest rates on FCNR(B) deposits, which were subject to ceilings pre- scribed by the RB I, were liberalized, subject to the condition that they shou ld not exceed the LIBOR p reva i l ing on the last work ing day of the previous week. December 2. L iab i l i t ies under NRER and nonresident nonrepatriable (NRNR) rupee deposits were exempted from cash reserve requirements. July 7. The RBI announced detailed e l ig ib i l i ty criteria to apply for authorization as a nom ina ted agency for the import of gold, s i lver, and p l a t inum from other nominated agencies. According to the criteria, the app l icant en t i ty should be a scheduled com- mercial bank w i th an un impa i red to tal cap i tal of at least Rs 3 b i l l ion capital to risk- weighted asset ratio in Ind ia of at least 9%, and have a fa i r ly advanced risk- management system, an excellent track record, and prev ious experience in gold-related bus iness activities. December 18. An interest rate surcharge of 15% of the lend ing rate on bank credit for impor ts was introduced. February 28. The scope of the EEFC accounts was broadened by a l low ing fac i l i t ies to account holders to (1) open offices abroad and to meet the off ice expenses; and (2) make inves tmen ts from the balances in the accounts in overseas jo int ventures up to the l im it of $15 m i l l ion, w i thout reference to the RBI. March 5. Funds held in EEFC accounts ma in ta ined by i n d i v i d u al account holders were allowed to be used for all their bona fide personal purposes (like travel or medi- cal treatment abroad for themselves or their fam i ly members and educational expenses of the ir children s tudy ing abroad). April 4. Exporters were allowed to set up offices abroad for promo t ing exports by us ing funds held in the ir EEFC account. May 2. Corporate exporters were permitted to extend trade-related advances to the ir impor ter clients out of the ir EEFC accounts up to $3,000 for each EEFC account, w i t h o ut RBI approval. June 4. ADs were permitted to credit to the ir EEFC accounts up to 70% of inward rem i t tances received by 100% export-oriented u n i ts (EOUs) or un i ts located in export processing zones (EPZs)/electronic hardware technology parks (EHTPs)/software technology parks (STPs). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers INDIA 431 June 4. Exporters were perm i t ted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign currency accounts w i th banks in Ind ia. July 6. ADs and commercial banks in ACU countries were allowed to transfer ACU dollars among themse lves instead of rou t ing the t ransac t ions on ly through the ir re- spective central banks. August 12. All exporters were allowed to extend trade-related advances to the ir import clients out of the ir EEFC accounts up to $15,000. January 1. The l im it of $10,000 on legal services re la t ing to import transactions was removed. However, remittances exceeding $100,000 or its equ iva lent remain subject to prior perm iss ion. The l im it of $5,000 for b i l ls received for collection in respect of postal impor ts by parcel post was removed. The l im it of Rs 250,000 for remittances for imports of designs and draw ings was removed. ADs were permitted to allow remit- tances for the actual cost of designs and draw ings imported by the ir clients, subject to f u l f i l lm e nt of prescribed cond i t ions. ADs were permitted to release foreign exchange for in i t ial expenses up to $25,000 or its equ iva lent for the opening of non t rad ing of- fices abroad and up to $10,000 or its equ iva lent for the posting of representatives abroad by Ind ian f i rms and companies. Accordingly, ADs were permitted to release exchange for in i t i al expenses for the above purpose up to the actual expenses incurred, provided that app l ican ts sa t is fy the e l ig ib i l i ty criteria. ADs were permitted to a l low remittances of the ac tual charges incurred by the Ind ian companies for database costs as opposed to the ear l ier l im it of $10,000. May 17. The basic travel quota was made available to eligible travelers irrespective of age. July 3. ADs were allowed to release foreign exchange for service-related remittances. December 15. ADs were allowed to release foreign exchange to students abroad whose parents are foreign na t iona ls but pe rmanen t ly res id ing in Ind ia, provided the parents do not have or hold foreign currency balances abroad and the student is f u l ly dependent on his or her parents. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts April 15. ADs were permitted to lend and borrow up to $10 m i l l ion in the overseas money markets. October 21. Banks were permitted to borrow up to a max imum of 15% of the ir un im- paired Tier I capital in overseas money markets. Banks were also permitted to invest up to 15% of their Tier I capital in overseas money markets. However, nostro balances arising on account of FCNR(B), EEFC, resident foreign currency (RFC), escrow de- posits, and overnight inves tmen ts were kept outside the l im i t. SEBI-registered Ind ian fund managers, inc lud ing mu tual fund s, were permitted to invest in overseas markets, subject to an i n d i v i d u al ce i l ing of $50 m i l l ion and an aggregate ce i l ing of $500 m i l l ion. Con tro ls on der iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts January 8. ADs were allowed to use interest rate swaps, currency swaps, and forward rate agreements to hedge the ir asset/liability por tfo l io, subject to certain conditions. February 6. In the context of hedging of loan exposures, ADs were allowed to offer a comb ina t ion of de r iva t ives w i th bu i l t - in option components, provided there was no net in f low of direct or imp l ied prem iums. April 15. ADs were permitted to book forward cover (beyond six months) for export- ers and importers w i thout the requirement of documentary evidence of a f i rm order or LC, but on the basis of a declaration of exposures supported by past performance and business projections. ADs were allowed to run a swap book w i th in the ir open position and gap l im i t s, and to arrange foreign exchange and rupee swaps between corporations w i thout prior approval of the RB I. October 21. A forward cover fac i l i ty was extended to NRI depositors in respect of deposits held under NRERA and FCNR(B). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 INDIA Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions December 2. ADs were allowed to book forward contracts based on documents evi- dencing exposure. January 30. App l ica t ions to raise foreign currency loans under the $3 m i l l ion scheme and short-term loan and credit were to be considered by the RBI. March 31. Exporters were allowed to raise ECBs up to twice the average amount of annual exports du r ing the previous three years, subject to a m ax imum of $100 m i l l ion w i thout end-use restrictions (i.e., general corporate objectives excluding inves tmen ts in the stock market or in real estate). The max imum level of en t i t lement in any one year is the cumu l a t ive l im it and debt ou ts tand ing under the ex is t ing $15 m i l l ion ex- porters' scheme, wh ich is netted out to determine annual e l ig ib i l i ty. ECBs were per- mitted to be used for rupee expenditures for roads ( inc lud ing bridges), ports, indus t r ial parks and urban infras truc ture (water supp ly, sanitation and sewage projects, as de- fined in Section 80 1A of Income Tax Act (1961)), in addition to the prev ious ly des- ignated sectors of power, telecommunications, and ra i lways. Holding companies and promoters were permitted to raise ECBs to a max imum of $50 m i l l ion equivalent to finance equity investment in a subsidiary company imp lemen t ing infras truc ture proj- ects. Corporate borrowers able to raise long-term resources w i th an average ma tu r i ty of 10 years and 20 years were allowed to use the ECB proceeds up to $100 m i l l ion and $200 m i l l ion, respectively, w i thout any end-use restrictions (i.e., general corpo- rate objectives), exc lud ing inve s tment in stock market or in real estate. Corporate bor- rowers were permitted to raise ECBs to acquire ships and vessels from Ind ian shipyards. Corporate borrowers who had raised ECBs for the impo r t ing of capital goods and services th rough bonds, FRNs, and syndicated loans were perm i t ted to remit and deploy funds in Ind ia, exc lud ing inves tmen ts in the stock market or in real estate, un t il the ir actual impor t ing of cap i tal goods and services takes place or up to one year, wh ichever is less. In case borrowers decided to deploy the funds abroad un t il the approved end-use requirement arises, they were eligible to do so according to ex- is t ing RBI guidelines. However, ECBs of an average ma tu r i ty of 10 years and above would be outside the ECB ceiling. ECB l im i ts for te lecommun ica t ions projects were made more f lex ib le, and an increase to 50% from 35% of the total project cost was allowed. January 17. The gove rnment of Ind ia announced the inc lu s ion in Annex III of the Statement of Indu s t r ial Policy (1991) of (1) three categories of indus tr ies and items relating to m in ing ac t iv i t ies for foreign equities up to 50%; (2) th ir teen additional categories of industries and items relating to m i n i ng activities for foreign equities up to 51%; and (3) n ine categories of indus tr ies and items for foreign equity up to 74%. March 31. The interest rate l im it on ECBs for project f inanc ing was allowed spreads of up to 350 points above LIBOR and U.S. treasury b i l ls. Corporate entities were also allowed to raise 50% of the permissible debt in the form of subord ina ted debt at a h igher interest rate. April 15. The CRR was reintroduced on an inc remen tal basis on nonres ident deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian rup iah. Two commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market From January 1, 1996 through August 13, 1997, the exchange rate was determined by the Bank Indonesia (BI) w i th in a system of managed float, under which the bank an- nounced a da i ly "conversion rate band" (for official transactions w i th foreign ex- change banks, the government, and supranational ins t i tu t ions), and an "intervention band" consisting of buy ing and selling rates that were computed on the basis of a bas- ket of currencies. On Ju ly 11, 1997, the intervention band was widened to 12% from 8%. Effective August 14, 1997, the policy of ma in ta in ing the currency w i th in a set trading exchange rate band was abandoned and replaced w i th a free-floating exchange rate arrangement. No. No. Forward and swap transactions are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between the BI and the banks concerned. On August 20, 1997, forward foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents were limited to $5 million for each bank and for each customer. These restrictions do not apply to trade- and investment-related transactions. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There are countertrade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored con- struction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 m i l l ion. In general, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. However, the Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the authority to institute regulations regarding commercial offshore borrowing. International security restrictions Restrictions against Israel are in place. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Restrictions against countries on wh ich the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on ex ternal trade Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and s i lver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency and silver coins issued in October 1974; amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts require the prior approval of the BI. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of R p 2 5 p e r $ l. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 5 m i l l ion a person. For amounts in excess of this l im it and up to Rp 10 m i l l ion, a declaration must be made to customs officials, while for amounts exceeding Rp 10 m i l l ion, the prior ap- proval of the BI is required in addition to the customs declaration. Travelers may bring in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 5 m i l l ion a person. For the repatriation of amounts in excess of this l im i t, the same conditions apply as for exports. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Only checking and t ime deposit accounts are permitted. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Only jur id ical persons are eligible. Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Requirements in general are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. However, due to the financial crisis faced by Indonesia, foreign exporters require banks to guarantee a 100% face va lue of red-clause LCs and advance payments. Cement/asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and elec- tric l ight bulbs are subject to qua l i ty control. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection On April 30, 1997, preshipment inspections were changed to inspections upon a r r ival to be conducted by customs. Customs is required to issue a report, wh ich was previ- ously done by Surveyor Indonesia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 435 Letters of credit LCs may be issued by foreign exchange banks in the form of sight or usance LCs. Payment se t t lement under usance LCs should not be more than 360 days. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Impo r ts from Israel and the coun tr ies against wh ich the Un i ted Nations has imposed a trade embargo are p roh ib i ted, as are impor ts from all sources of most secondhand goods and of cer ta in produc ts. However, secondhand engines and the ir parts and other capital goods may be imported by indus t r ial f i rms for their own use or for the recon- d i t ion ing of th e ir indu s t ry, in accordance w i th the gu ide l ines of the M in is t ry of Trade (MOT) and of I n d u s t r y. Cer ta in categories of ag r icu l tu ral impor ts, in c lud ing food- s tu f f s, beverages, and f r u i t s, may be imported on ly by registered importers designated by the MOT. The p rocu rement policies of companies approved for the impo r ta t ion of f r u i t, alcoholic beverages, and ch ickens are eva lua ted annua l ly by the governmen t, a l though exp l ic it q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized impor ters that includes on ly Indonesian na t iona ls, a l though foreign inves tors are permitted to import the items required for the ir own projects. A l though all impo r ts in to Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are c lass if ied under the nonresident license (also called general importer license). Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain products are granted preferen t ial duties w i t h in the framework of the AFTA and the WTO. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Impo rt taxes are collected th rough foreign exchange banks authorized by the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). State import monopoly Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Pe t ram ina has a monopoly on the impo r ta t ion of lubricating oil and lub r ica t ing fa ts, and Dahana on the impor ta t ion of ammun i t ion and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice. The monopoly r igh ts of approved impor ters (sole agents) also rema in in effect for the impor ta t ion of certain heavy equ ipment and motor vehicles, a l though th is r ight may be transferred to general impo r te rs. The impo r ta t ion of t rucks is subject to res tr ic t ion. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom i c i l i a t ion Presh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses Exporters (producers or supp l ie rs) may sell the ir export proceeds to the BI th rough a red iscount f a c i l i ty. D ra f ts may be rediscounted in rup iah or foreign currency. Such d ra f ts denom ina ted in currenc ies other th an the do l lar, pound sterling, yen, French f ranc, or deutsche mark mu st first be converted in to dollars. The m ax imum rema in ing period to m a t u r i ty of d ra f ts that can be rediscounted by foreign exchange banks to the BI is 720 days. The BI sets the discount rate for da i ly rediscount transactions based on the SIBOR rate for var ious ma tu r i t ies p lus a ma rg in. The BI also provides rediscount fac i l i t ies for supp l ie rs of related products to exporters. In th is case, on the basis of a local LC, a supp l ier may seek a bank d ra ft and sell to the BI through a foreign ex- change bank, provided the rema in ing days to ma tu r i ty are between 30 and 180 days. The d iscount rate for the d ra ft is the B I 's s ix-mon th money market securities' cut-off rate. Exports w i th s ight LC cond i t ions mu st be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered w i th the fore ign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of goods th at con ta in impo r ts free of impo rt tax requ ire p resh ipment inspec t ion. Exports to Israel and the coun t r ies aga inst wh ich the UN has imposed a trade embargo are p roh ib i ted, as are exports to all countries of cer ta in categories of unprocessed or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 INDONESIA W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cu l tu ral value. Exporters are required to obtain trade perm i ts issued by the MOT. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the MOT in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic process- ing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, iron construction reinforcements, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat f lour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to the suspension of exports of various items in this category. Manioc may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consumer countries may be exported only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. Export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 per cubic meter are applied to sawed and processed timber. Exports of logs are subject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 per cubic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Since September 4, 1997, foreign inves tors have been a l lowed to purchase w i thout l im it shares issued by Indones ian nonbank companies in the Indones ian cap i tal market. Since December 26, 1997, foreign companies have been permitted to issue Indones ian Depositary Receipts (IDRs) th rough custodian banks in Indones ia. IDRs are in s t ru- ments that fac i l i ta te the t rad ing of shares of foreign companies in the Indones ian capital market. Cus tod ian banks in tu rn issue IDRs based on the shares that the fo re ign companies have put in the cus tod ian bank. No restriction app l ies as long as the shares are not listed on the Indones ian Stock Ex- change. If those securities are listed on the Indones ian Stock Exchange, they i n i t i a l ly shou ld comp ly w i th the Capital Market Act and w i th the requ i rement on the m a x im um percentage of foreign owne rsh ip of shares. However, Indones ian companies do not issue shares but rather Amer ican Depository Receipts (ADRs) in the U.S. cap i tal mar- ket and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 437 Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Banks require approval from the COLT for issuance of ins trumen ts w i th ma tur i t ies over two years or for amounts exceeding $20 million a year a creditor; however, total issuances should not exceed 30% of the bank's capital. Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Derivative transactions, other than those associated w i th foreign exchange and interest rates, are proh ib i ted. However, der iva t ive transactions in equities are only allowed w i th prior permission from the BI on a case-by-case basis. On August 29, 1997, for- ward sales foreign currency contracts by domestic banks with nonresidents was lim- ited to $5 million a bank and a customer. These restrictions do not apply to trade- and investment-related transactions. Banks are obliged to enter into a written agreement with the ir clients and explain the risks invo lved. Losses of more than 10% of a bank's capital must be reported to the BI. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations app ly as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents In general, there are no restrictions on the gran t ing of credit by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. Resident entities, especially nonbank private sectors, may borrow from nonresidents; however, they have to subm it periodic reports to the COLT on their borrowing. The fo l low ing are subject to au thor iza t ion by the COLT: (1) borrowings related to development projects us ing nonrecourse, l im i ted recourse, advance paymen t, trustee borrow ing, leasing, and s im i lar f inanc ing; (2) borrowings related to development projects w i th f inanc ing based on build-operate- transfer, bu i ld-and- transfer, and s im i lar schemes; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company (including the State Bank of Pertamina), inc lud ing in the form of government equity participation, guarantee for prov is ion of feed stock supp ly, or guarantee for products off taker. In general, there are no restrictions on the gran t ing of credit by residents (exc lud ing banks) to nonres ident entities. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inw a rd d irect inve s tment Banks are allowed to provide sureties and guarantees to nonresident entities only under the fo l low ing cond i t ions: (1) when there is su f f ic ient contraguarantee from bona f ide overseas banks (exc lud ing overseas branches from the relevant bank); and (2) when there is a cash deposit va lued at 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are restricted: (1) foreign inves tment companies in in f ras t ruc tu re proj- ects such as seaports, electricity generation, transm iss ion and d is tr ibu t ion for public use, te lecommun ica t ions, sh ipp ing, airlines, potable water supp ly, pub l ic ra i lway s, and nuc lear electric power genera t ion should be established by way of jo int ven tu re be- tween foreign and Indones ian par tners, and the share of Indones ian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign inve s tment company may be established as a straight inves tmen t, wh ich means that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 INDONESIA 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign c i t izen and/or en t i t ies. However, some of the comp any 's shares mu st be sold to an Indonesian c i t izen and/or en t i t ies th rough direct placement and/or ind i rec t ly th rough the domestic cap i tal market no later th an 15 years after the commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownersh ip of direct inves tmen ts must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of production. For inves tmen ts above $50 m i l l i o n, divestment of 50% mu st be completed w i th in 20 years. For smaller inves tmen ts, the d ives tment requ i rement is less s tr ingen t. All foreign enterprises are e l ig ib le to receive p re fe ren t ial cus toms du ty trea tment for imports of required raw ma ter ia ls for the f irst two years of production ac t iv i ty. Raw materials may be imported w i th no t ime l im i t. In addition, an enterprise expor t ing more than 65% of its produc t ion is free to h ire foreign experts as needed to m a i n t a in its export comm i tmen ts. Investors are granted the r ight to repa tr ia te cap i ta l, to t rans fer p ro f i ts (af ter se t t lement of taxes and f inanc ial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers re la t ing to ex- penses connected w i th the emp loyment of foreign na t iona ls in Indonesia and re la t ing to depreciation allowances. The law prov ides that no transfer perm it sha ll be issued for capital repa tr ia t ion as long as inve s tment benef i ts from tax relief are being re- ceived; at present, however, foreign paymen ts do not requ ire a t rans fer pe rm i t. According to Agrar ian Law (1960), nonresidents are only a l lowed to buy land w i th the land t i t le status "the r ight to use of land (Hak Pakai)," but since the land t i t le of real estate in Indonesia is "the r ight to bu i ld on land (HGB)," they are not allowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inwa rd direct invest- ment in local real estate. Yes. No. The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions and its prior approval is required before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or pub l ic sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Res ident banks or credit i n s t i t u t i o n s, spec i f ica l ly the ones that deal w i th in terna t ional trade and f inance ac t iv i t ies, are allowed to borrow abroad w i th in l im i ts. An annual borrowing ceiling is imposed by the BI for foreign commer- cial borrow ing of more than two years' ma tur i ty. In add i t ion, the prospective borrow- ers obtain COLT decisions for queu ing on the in te rna t ional capital market before so l ic i t ing for such borrowings. Besides, banks may receive foreign commercial bor- row ing w i th ma tu r i t ies of no more than two years w i th an amount not exceeding $20 m i l l ion a creditor on a bilateral basis w i t h o ut pr ior approval from the BI, but the banks should ma in ta in the total amount of such borrowings at or below a m a x im um of 30% of the ir capital. Trade f inanc ing, such as the issuance of LCs, red-clause LCs, supp l ie r 's and buye r 's credits w i th ma tur i t ies not exceeding one year and amoun ts of less than $20 m i l l ion, are not considered borrowings that require approval f rom the COLT. A bank that has received a med ium- to long-term foreign commercial lend ing fac i l i ty (PKLN) ceiling shall provide export credit of at least 80% of the PKLN re- ceived for the year concerned. Foreign commercial borrowings received by f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s, such as leasing companies, factoring companies, and consumer f inanc ing companies, may not exceed f ive times the company 's net worth less its equ i ty share. Banks are not a l lowed to grant loans or f inanc ial and commercial credits in e i ther rup i ah or fore ign exchange to nonresidents, in c lud ing those w i th au thor iza t ion from residents to obtain credit. Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange. Banks can also purchase lo- ca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that the securities must be inves tment grade and should not be issued by the ir groups. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents INDONESIA 439 To do th i s, banks shou ld take in to account other exchange regulations, name ly the regu la t ion on net open position aimed at p ruden t ial control. This is, however, l im i ted by open position l im i ts. Banks are free to set the ir interest rates on both deposits and loans. In the case of taxes, revenues gained from interest on nonres ident deposit accounts are taxed at 20% or at a percentage s t ipu la ted on the tax agreement between the government of Indone- sia and the government of a nonresident en t i ty, wh i le the revenues gained from in ter- est of resident deposit accounts are taxed at 15%. Banks are on ly perm i t ted to place the ir inves tmen ts in f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, and th is should not exceed 25% of a b ank 's cap i tal as well as 15% of the f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o n 's cap i ta l. Equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion of foreign banks in a jo int bank shall not exceed 85% of pa id -up capital. Foreign citizens and/or foreign legal entities may purchase shares in a com- mercial bank sold th rough the stock exchange in Indonesia, but they should not ex- ceed 49% of the listed shares. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im i ts are: (1) the average total net open pos i t ion, both on and off balance sheet, in a week must not exceed 25% of the b a n k 's cap i ta l; and (2) the average net open position off balance sheet in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital. On August 29, 1997, each bank 's net pos i t ion in the forward market was l im i ted to $5 m i l l ion. These res tr ic t ions do not app ly to trade- and inves tmen t-re la ted transac t ions. Insurance and re insurance companies licensed in Indones ia are not allowed to inve st abroad except for pr iva te placement in companies conducting insurance business overseas, such as insu rance companies, re insurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, etc. Indonesian mu tual funds are prohibited f rom inves t ing abroad. L iab i l i t ies denom ina ted in foreign currency of insurance and re insurance compan ies exceeding assets denom ina ted in foreign currency shall not be more than 10% of shareholders' equ i ty. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Asset-backed securities have been introduced on the Indones ian capital marke t. These are securities backed by certain assets, such as loans and receivables. Exchange arrangement July 11. The BI widened the do l la r - rup iah in te rven t ion band to 12% from 8%. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments Capital transactions August 14. The managed f loa t ing exchange regime was replaced by a freely floating arrangement. April 30. Preshipment inspec t ions were changed to inspec t ions upon a r r ival to be conducted by customs. Customs is required to issue a report, wh ich prev ious ly was done by Surveyor Indones ia. Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts September 4. Foreign investors were allowed to purchase un l im i t ed domestic shares, except for bank ing shares. Controls on de r iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts August 29. Forward sales foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonres iden ts were l im i ted to $5 m i l l ion a bank and a customer. These restricitons do not app ly to trade- and inves tmen t-re la ted transac t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Regional arrangements Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran is the Iran ian r ia l. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: (1) the off ic ial rate, which is fixed at Rls 1,750 per $1, applies ma in ly to the imports of essential goods; and (2) the export rate, which is fixed at Rls 3,000 per $1 and applies to all other transactions. The exchange rates are set by the Bank Markazi (BM). No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. All bilateral payment arrangements have been terminated, and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the ACU, also in- cluding Bangladesh, India, Myanma r, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, are required to be effected in AMUs; settlements w i th these countries are made every two months. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the BM. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce. All external payments arrears have been settled. However, there is about $181 m i l l ion under reconciliation. Au tho r i ty to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the BM. Exports of gold ingots, coins, or semifinished products are prohibited. Exports of f in ished articles may be effected in accordance w i th relevant regulations. Na tu ral and ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing authorized banks, may import gold, p la t inum, and silver bu l l ion for com- mercial purposes, in accordance w i th the relevant regulations. Travelers may bring in jewe lry up to a va lue equivalent to Rls 5 m i l l ion and may take out the entire va lue, provided that it is recorded on the ir passport. The impor ta t ion of personal jewe l ry w i th a va lue exceeding th is amount requires approval from the BM. The exportation of I ran ian gold coins for num isma t ic purposes requires prior approval from the BM. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 441 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out w i th them up to R ls 200,000 in Iran ian banknotes. I ran ian na t iona ls t rave l ing abroad may export up to $1,000 on an ind iv idu al passport or up to a m ax imum of $500 a person for group passports. Foreign exchange from fore ign-currency-denom ina ted accounts o r ig ina t ing abroad and/or credit cards may be transferred by na tu ral persons w i thout any l im i ta t ion. On imports Domestic currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons may open these accounts. Foreign exchange o r ig ina t ing abroad and deposited in these accounts may be trans- ferred abroad w i thout l im i ta t ions. Domestic currency accounts The balance of r ial accounts may be used on ly in the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran. Convertible in to foreign currency App roval required No. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement Requ i remen ts range f rom 15%-100%, depend ing on the creditworthiness of the cus- tomer and the type of goods. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import certificates may be traded at the Teheran Stock Exchange for the right to im- port out of export proceeds depend ing on the type of export, and from a list of 29 categories of goods th at can be imported in th is manner. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements P resh ipment inspec t ion Letters of cred it Yes. Yes. Impor ts th rough an LC and b i l ls of exchange are perm i t ted. Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import regulations d i s t ingu i sh between authorized, conditional, and prohibited goods. Authorized goods can be imported w i thout restriction. Conditional goods can be im- ported under certain conditions. Clearance through customs is authorized upon presen- tation of sh ipp ing documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals, must be ac- companied by a special permit issued by the M in i s t ry of Hea l th, Treatment, and Medi- cal Education, and telecommunication devices require a permit issued by the M in is t ry of the Post, Telegraph, and Telephone. Yes. Imports from Israel are prohibited. At the beg inn ing of each year, the M in i s t ry of Commerce issues the list of goods that may be imported w i thout prior approval. Licenses w i th quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most impor ts are subject to an ad valorem commercial benefit tax in add i t ion to any applicable customs du t ies. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion P resh ipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quo tas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters of non-oil goods are required to repatriate to the bank ing system 100% of the ir foreign exchange earnings upon settlement. Effective January 28, 1998, 100% of such earnings may be allocated to exporters for the ir imports. The period between the date goods are exported and the date foreign exchange earnings are repatriated to the bank ing sector is eight months. An exporter may receive a 1 % exemption for each mon th prior to the eight months. The list of imported items that exporters may buy w i th the proportion of foreign exchange earnings that they are allowed to retain was expanded. The ratios are the same as those for the repatriation requirement. Yes. The export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions and b i l ls of exchange is permitted. Yes. n.a. Inspection by the customs au thor i t ies generally applies to all exports. The M in is t ry of Commerce issues an overall export license for goods on the author- ized l is t. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for fre ight and insurance, administrative expenses, interests, amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, medical costs, study abroad, subscription and membersh ip fees, consulting and legal fees, and foreign workers' wages require prior approval; prior approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for transfers for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Freight/insurance ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 443 paymen ts for un load ing and storage costs and the remittances of prof i ts and d iv idends. Payment of adm in i s t ra t ion charges can be made w i th BM perm iss ion. Freight charges may only be transferred through LCs or b i l ls of exchange up to a m ax imum of 30% of the f.o.b. value of goods; approval of the BM is required to transfer more th an 30%. Only Iran ian insurance companies may issue insurance po l i- cies for the import of goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or dep rec ia t ion of direct inves tmen ts Indicative limit s/bona fide test Yes. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits The l im i ts are $1,000 a year for a person w i th an i n d i v i d u al passport and $500 a per- son for those t rave l ing w i th a group passport. In the case of travel to neighboring countries, the l im i ts are $300 a year a person for ind iv idu al passports and $150 a per- son for group passports. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits L im i ts are set on an ad hoc basis; foreign exchange may be obtained at the o f f ic ial rate of Rls 1,750 per $1 up to the amount specified by the M in is t ry of Health. Indicative limits/bona fide test n .a. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membersh ip fees Quantitative limits Consu l t ing / legal fees Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits The amount of allowances varies according to the cost of l iv ing in the coun try of study. The limits are $1,517 a month a student, p lus 60% for a spouse and 30% for each ch i ld, at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. In certain cases when th is amount is not suf- ficient to cover tu i t ion, add i t ional amounts to cover un ive rs i ty fees and expenses may be allowed. Foreign exchange allowances at the o f f ic ial exchange rate are granted to students under scholarships in nonmedical fields w i th the approval of the M in is try of Cu l tu re and H igher Educa t ion, and to those in the medical field w i th the approval of the M in is t ry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Students w i thout scholar- ships are allocated foreign exchange at the export rate upon evidence of acceptance by an ins t i tu t ion and receipt of a tuition invoice. Yes. Yes. Payment of consu l t ing / legal fees w i th the con f i rma t ion of the Bureau of Legal Ser- vices of Iran is pe rm i t ted. Foreign na t iona ls wo rk ing in the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran pub l ic sector whose services are considered essential are allowed to rem it up to 50% of the ir net salaries at the of- f ic ial export exchange rate max imum up to $500 a month, w i th the prior approval of the BM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Credit card use abroad Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inwa rd direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Nonresidents may invest in ins trumen ts traded on the Teheran Stock Exchange, but the investment is not protected under the investment law. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Permitted w i th the confirmation of the High Council for Investment. Controls are administered by the Organization for Inves tment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the M in is try of Economic A f fa i rs and Finance, if the inves t- ment took place in accordance w i th the Law Concerning Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Inves tmen t. The repatriation of capital is guaranteed w i th the approval of the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the M in is try of Economic Af- fairs and Finance and the BM. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 445 Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1997 July 11. Import certificates were allowed to be traded through the Teheran Stock Ex- change. Trading started effectively in late Ju ly 1997. February 21. Importation rights out of non-oil export earnings were increased to 100% for carpet exporters (from 30%). March 21. Importation rights out of non-oil export earnings were increased to 50% for other exporters (excluding indus tr ial exporters). Exports and export proceeds January 28. One hundred percent of earnings from the export of goods may be allo- cated to exporters for the ir imports. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi d ina r. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: (1) the off ic ial rate, wh ich is fixed at ID 1,750 per $1, and applies ma in ly to the imports of essential goods; and (2) the export rate, wh ich is fixed at ID 3,000 per $1 and applies to all other transactions. The Iraqi d inar is pegged to the dollar, the in terven t ion currency. The exchange rates are set by the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th foreign countries norma l ly must be made in any of the listed curren- cies or in Iraqi d inars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the ac- count were obtained or ig ina l ly through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Paymen ts to and receipts from Israel are proh ib i ted. Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Board of Adm in is t ra t ion of the CBI. Cer- ta in approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Bank ing Supervision of the CBI and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transac- tions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor of the CBI. Branches of the Ra f ida in Bank and the Rasheed Bank are li- censed dealers. The M in is try of Trade (MOT) formulates import policy and the annual import program. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade n.a. Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs du ty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its we igh t, provided that they declare it upon importa- t ion. Residents may take out w i th them worked gold not exceeding 5 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on the ir return to the coun t ry. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought w i th them for personal use. ID 5 is the m a x im um amount a l lowed. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency IRAQ 447 n.a. Amoun ts up to ID 1,000 are allowed. Travelers may br ing in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency), in un l im i ted amoun ts, provided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Eligibility to hold accounts Na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le, Resident Accounts Jur id ical persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly n.a. Yes. Resident Iraqis and resident na t iona ls of other A rab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts w i thout res tr ic t ion, provided the accounts have been credited w i th fore ign banknotes. Approval required Held abroad n.a. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le, Ju r id ical persons n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Iraqis and nonresident na t iona ls of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts w i thout restriction, provided the accounts have been credited w i th foreign banknotes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident ac- counts, wh ich invo lve current payment transactions, and special nonresident accounts, which invo lve capital transfer transactions. Balances on these accounts and any app l i- cable interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited w i th licensed dealers w i th in three mon ths of transfer. Iraqi na t iona ls residing abroad (or the ir legal representatives) may w i thd raw from the ir nonresident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year in three ins ta l lmen ts to cover personal expenses in the ir country of residence. Approval required n .a. Imports and Import Payments Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. n.a. n.a. The Ra f ida in Bank and the Rasheed Bank prov ide foreign exchange upon presen ta t ion of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances when reference must be made to the CBI. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 IRAQ Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are issued in accordance w i th an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. All pr iva te imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials cons t i tu t ing basic elements for development projects. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. n.a. n.a. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies implement- ing development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, inc lud ing income taxes due on the earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly Imports of commodities are norma l ly handled by the pub l ic sector. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Exporters of 13 goods manufac tured by f i rms in the pub l ic sector must repatriate 60% of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Ra f ida in Bank or the Rasheed Bank and surrender them w i th in two mon ths of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in a foreign exchange account w i th the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The MOT may proh ib it the exportation of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exh ib i t ions and Trading Services. n.a. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Payments for travel Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les require permission. In fo rma t ion on ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests for all paymen ts, as well as on quan t i ta t ive l im i ts for most transactions, is not available. Some l im i ts are listed below. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for the ir exports. The basic allowance for travel to Arab and socialist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for per- sons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a t r ip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi d ina rs to be transferred to the coun try of the ir residence, except for certain countries (such as Ind ia, the Ba l t ic countries, Russ ia, the other countries of the FSU, and coun tr ies in No r th A f r ica ), where students are paid a fixed amount in dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits IRAQ 449 The Ra f ida in Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are nationals of Arab countries employed by the Ministry of Higher Education, and of scientific researchers and medical doctors, in accordance w i th the terms of their contracts. Certain nonresident pr iva te sector workers who have contracts w i th public ins t i tu t ions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a mon th ly amount of ID 10 a person if not insured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled noncontractual workers employed in the nationalized sector are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer w i th in three mon ths. Controls on capital and money market instruments All capital transactions effected abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nation- als, require prior approval. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 IRAQ Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inward direct inves tment Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All inves tmen ts effected abroad by residents, whe ther I raq is or foreign na t iona l s, re- qu ire prior approva l. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) par t ic ipa t ion is allowed in the cap i tal of p r iva te sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate w i th Iraqis in projects in the indus t r ia l, ag r icu l tu ra l, and tour ism sectors; par t ic ipa t ion is encouraged by the Arab Inves tment Law (1988). The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that the ir con t r ibu t ion and p ro f i ts be paid in Iraqi di- nars and that the m in imum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 m i l l ion; (2) Arab inves- tors to transfer annua l ly up to 100% of the p ro f i ts distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of the ir pa id- in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to b r ing capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for indus tr ial and agricultural inves tmen ts. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank, or physical assets that w i ll be used in the enterprises they are p lann ing to estab- l ish, provided that used mach inery and equ ipment have at least one-half of the ir pro- duc t ive l i fe lef t. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Changes During 1995-1997 The IMF has not received from the au thor i t ies the in fo rma t ion required for a descrip- t ion of the exchange and trade system as of December 1995, December 1996, and December 1997. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Ire land is the Irish pound. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Ireland par t ic ipa tes in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th th is mechan ism, Ire- land ma in ta ins spot exchange rates between the I r ish pound and the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipan ts w i t h in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the cen tral rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to p rov ide forward exchange fac i l i t ies. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. No. No. Yes. Restrictions on f inanc ial transfers w i th Angola, Iraq, and Libya are applied in accor- dance w i th relevant UN Security Council resolutions and EC regulations. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 IRELAND Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes, Blocked accounts Thrse accounts are blocked in accordance w i th UN sanctions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses w i th quotas For reasons of na t ional policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explo- sives, and firearms and ammun i t ion) are prohibited w i thout special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quan t i ta t ive restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The EU system of customs duties applies to imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports of controlled m i l i t a ry and dua l -use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Restrictions on use of funds No. IRELAND 453 Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. No. Inves tment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for a limited number of sectors that are subject to special conditions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, ind iv idua ls, and companies whose pr inc ipal place of residence/registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Land Commission for permission to purchase land. Such permission is rarely withheld. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts July 11. Sanctions imposed on Iraq restricting f inanc ial transfers were amended in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 986 of 1995 and EC Regulation No. 2465/96. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of February 28, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21, 1993. Currency The currency of Israel is the Israeli new sheqel (N IS) (p lu ral new sheqa l im ). Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed w i th regard to a basket of currencies compr is ing the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Japanese yen, the pound s ter l ing, and the dollar. Since June 1997, the market exchange rate fluctuates w i t h in ma rg ins of ±15% (7% prev ious ly) around the m idpo int rate in response to market forces and in- terven t ion policy. Since December 17, 1991, both the m idpo int and the band have been adjusted da i ly, re f lec t ing the annu al d ifference between the domestic i n f l a t i on target and the projected in f la t ion of the ma in trad ing partners. The ad jus tment of the upper (depreciated) band has been 6% on an annu al basis since J u ly 26, 1993; the ad jus tment of the lower (appreciated) band has been 4% on an annual basis since June 1997. No. No. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in fu tu res and op t ions, in c lud ing traded contracts on foreign currencies, fore ign in te r- est rates, commodities, and secur i ty prices by both resident companies and i n d i v i d u- als, are allowed, except for insu re rs, pension fund s, and prov ident f u n d s, wh i ch s t i ll face some l im i ta t ion s. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations n .a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. No. Exchange control is the respons ib i l i ty of the Controller of Foreign Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel (BOI) in cooperation w i th other government agen- cies and is carried out through au thor ized banks that are permitted to deal in foreign exchange. Other in s t i tu t ions (e.g., security brokers and foreign exchange dealers) may obtain a l im i ted license to deal in foreign exchange. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on ex ternal trade Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bu l l ion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency ISRAEL 455 Resident travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresi- dent travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer at the port of departure foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Effective February 12, 1998, nonresident travelers may repurchase up to the equivalent of $1,000. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency on presentation of documents showing the previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each v is it of $5,000 a person over 18 years of age and $2,000 a person under 18 years of age (a temporary leave of less than two weeks dur ing the v is it does not affect the per- son's right). Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may purchase $1,000 w i th- out hav ing to present documentation at a border crossing upon leaving Israel. Only commercial banks are authorized to export foreign currency to foreign banks. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Held domestically Un t il January 1, 1998, there were two main types of accounts: (1) Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts (PAMAH). The period dur ing wh ich foreign currency may be held in a resident transferred position (PAMAH) is 30 days. Export proceeds and un i la teral transfers directly received from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The l iqu id i ty requirements are 6% for a current account and 3% for a time deposit account w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to one year, and zero for a t ime deposit account w i th a maturity exceeding one year. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These ac- counts may be held only by recipients of restitution paymen ts or certain d isab i l i ty pensions. The l iqu id i ty requirement for these accounts is the same as the above, and for deposits held over one year, the requirement is 3%. Funds deposited in these ac- counts are tax free and may be used up to a l im it of $1,800 for additional travel allow- ances; and (2) Exempt Resident Deposit Accounts. Certain residents (mostly immigrants) may deposit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Starting on January 1, 1998, Israeli residents have been permitted to purchase foreign currency w i th local currency and to deposit it in foreign currency deposits in Israeli banks; they have also been permitted to transfer money between foreign currency deposits. Certain residents (mostly imm igran ts) may hold accounts abroad. Israeli nationals who are residents abroad may open foreign currency accounts in banks abroad, but must close the account before returning to Israel, unless they are exempt persons or if their visit to Israel does not exceed 30 days. Israeli companies that issue securities abroad may place the proceeds of the offering in a bank deposit abroad. Prior approval is required. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 ISRAEL Foreign exchange accounts permitted Account holders may freely effect transfers from their foreign currency account and may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the market exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of convertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds in these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, inc lud ing transfers between nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Deposits linked to foreign currency or the CPI are not convertible. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Effective February 12, 1998, there is no time l im it on making advance payments for imports, but even tua l ly, importers must bring merchandise purchased abroad into Israel. Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit) are pre- sented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of suppliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments w i thout f irst depositing the funds with an author- ized Israeli bank. With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or proh ib it im- ports from Israel. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Effective January 12, 1998, there is no t ime l im it on receiving export proceeds, i.e., exporters may extend credit to buyers abroad for any period of time. However, export proceeds must be brought to Israel as soon as they are received. Proceeds may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to authorized banks. However, exporters may retain in a bank account abroad up to 10% of export proceeds received over the previous 12-month period and use the funds to pay for imports and other authorized payments abroad. In cases where the exporter is a f i rm w i th limited l iab i l i- ties, the amount allowed to be deposited in a bank account abroad is also part of the overall l im it on the portfolio investment abroad of the f i rm. For inpu ts directly im- ported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. On February 9, 1997, exporters were permitted to deposit in a bank abroad proceeds received from a f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion abroad against the dis- coun t ing of notes. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes ISRAEL 457 Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equ ipment require licensing. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it is $7,000 a person a t r ip in cash, traveler's checks, and cash w i thd rawa ls on credit cards. Indicative limits/bona fide test Additional cash allowances may be granted on request. Residents holding PAMAH restitution accounts may w i thd raw an additional amount of $1,800. Medical costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits A resident who requires hospitalization abroad is permitted to pay up to the equ iva lent of $30,000 in advance. Wh i le abroad, he or she is permitted to pay the remainder of expenses on submission of receipts. On February 9, 1997, documentation requirements to purchase foreign exchange were liberalized. On February 9, 1997, advance transfers of the exchange allowance for students were permitted for up to one year. On Ju ly 24, 1997, the exchange allowance for students s tudy ing at ins t i tu t ions of h igher education abroad was raised to $2,500 from $1,000 a mon th in add i t ion to tu i t ion expenses. Yes. Yes. On Ju ly 24, 1997, the annual limit on foreign currency remittances abroad by Israeli residents as gifts or support payments was raised to $10,000 from $2,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is l im i ted to the purchase of tour ist services abroad. There is no l im it for credit card payments abroad for imports of goods and services. Residents, while in Israel, are permitted to make credit card payments abroad of up to $5,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The l im it for cash w i thd rawa ls is $7,000 a trip. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in general, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. Since October 1997, imm igran ts who were considered exempt persons are exempt from the requirement to surrender their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 ISRAEL foreign exchange to authorized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely w i th authorized banks in Israel or w i th banks abroad. Since Ju ly 24, 1997, re- cipients of restitution payments from Germany or of pensions from abroad have been permitted to deposit these payments in bank accounts abroad. Restrictions are in accordance w i th general rules pe r ta in ing to the use of foreign currency. Capital Transactions Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase any security traded on the stock exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds may be freely transferred. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Households may purchase freely securities abroad, whose price or information regard- ing its offering appears in an international l is t ing of securities, provided the l is t ing is recognized by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. On Ju ly 24, 1997, the l im it on holdings of foreign securities and foreign currency abroad by Israeli companies was raised from 5% of their turnover or 10% of their equity capital, whichever was h igher, to 15% of their turnover or 25% of their equity capital, whichever was higher. These l im i ts were abolished on January 1, 1998. All transactions and transfers of funds abroad should be conducted through an authorized dealer in foreign exchange (usua l ly a bank). The proceeds of these issues must usua l ly be transferred to Israel. Special permits are provided for ho ld ing the issues abroad. The transfer of f u n ds required to service se- cur i ty issues is allowed. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase money market ins trumen ts traded on the stock exchange (such as treasury b i l ls). Households may purchase freely money market ins trumen ts that are traded on an ex- change abroad. Un t il Janua ry 1, 1998, when the l im i ts were removed, the business sector could purchase market ins trumen ts abroad w i th a l im it set at 15% of sales or 25% of capital. Residents may issue money market instruments that are traded on an exchange abroad. The proceeds of these issues must usua l ly be transferred to Israel; however, special permits for holding these proceeds abroad are granted to all issuers. The transfer of funds required to service security issues is allowed. Nonresidents may purchase certificates of participation in mu tual funds. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase certificates of deposit in provident funds. The sale or issue of collective ins t rument securities on local markets is allowed, pro- vided that the securities are traded on the stock market. However, the issue of such securities requires authorization from the authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 459 Purchase abroad by residents Households may buy certificates of pa r t ic ipa t ion in mu tu al funds that are either traded on an exchange or authorized by the appropr ia te au tho r i ty in the issu ing coun t ry. The bus iness sector may purchase such certificates w i th a l im i t. The l im i ts were e l im ina ted on Janua ry 1, 1998. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of collective in s t rument securities abroad by residents is not a l lowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase der iva t ives and other securities abroad. However, u n t il Janua ry 1, 1998, when all the restrictions were removed, the business sector was restricted to hedg ing, w h i le households could purchase for both hedging and speculation. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits may be granted up to a period of one year. In the case of capital goods, long- term credit may also be granted. Nonbanks are generally not allowed to grant f inanc ial credit to nonresidents. How- ever, an Israeli company may grant equ i ty holders' loans to its subs id ia ry abroad, provided the parent company holds at least 5% of the equ i ty of its subs id ia ry. An Israeli company in w h i ch a nonres ident holds at least 75% of the shares may grant credit to the non res iden t, w i th a perm i t, up to the amount of the equ i ty. On Janua ry 1998, the l im i ta t ion based on equ i ty holders' loans was removed. To residents from nonresidents Direct loans from nonres iden ts to Israeli residents are not restricted. Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment A resident may prov ide sureties, guarantees, or f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies to a non- resident if they are related to a permitted transaction. Guarantees may also be granted to an agent in an export transaction. Only active incorporated Israeli companies are permitted to undertake direct invest- ment abroad (e.g., in subs id iar ies and real estate) w i thout any quan t i ta t ive l im it on the size of the investment. Foreign exchange brought in to Israel for the purpose of inves tment in the form of equ i ty cap i tal or shareholders' loans may be granted preferential tax treatment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds may be repatriated if the original source of the investment was foreign cur- rency or a nonresident local currency account. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Only the bus iness sector is permitted to conduct these transactions. Ind iv idua ls are not allowed to make such inves tmen ts, except for the purchase of a time-share u n it not exceeding $15,000. Proceeds may be repatriated if the original source of the inves tment was fore ign cur- rency or a nonres ident local currency account. n.a. n.a. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies G i f ts and endowmen ts are limited to $10,000 a year, wh i le ins t i tu t ions are w i thout l im i t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 ISRAEL By residents to nonresidents n.a. Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants This is permitted through the exempt person's account. Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Since February 9, 1997, emigrants were permitted to transfer abroad up to 20% of the ir assets or $50,000, wh ichever is higher. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Resident "authorized dealer banks" are free to borrow abroad in the form of nonresi- dent accounts or loans from foreign banks. In addition, they may issue securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Au thor ized dealer banks are free to grant loans, inc lud ing f inanc ial credits denomi- nated in foreign or local currency. They may purchase fixed-income securities abroad. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Reserve requirements The same reserve ratios app ly to bank accounts held by both residents and nonresi- dents denominated in foreign or local currency. However, interest is paid only on re- serve requirements that are due to nonresident foreign currency accounts. All foreign currency accounts are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, ha lf of wh ich must be deposited w i th the BOI in an interest-generating account. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Foreign exchange deposits require a foreign exchange reserve allotment. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The size of the l im it for each bank is a proportion of the bank 's equity (w i th a m in i- mum position size granted to small banks). The l im i ts are applied on the basis of weekly averages. Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad All restrictions on mu tual fund inves tmen ts in foreign securities were abolished on Janua ry 1, 1998. On Ju ly 24, 1997, the l im it on f inanc ial inves tment abroad by prov ident funds was raised to 5% from 2% of their assets and to 50% from 10% of their assets for mu tu al fund s. Pension funds and insurance companies are not allowed to invest abroad. In- come and prof i ts earned in foreign currency by in s t i tu t ional inves tors from these in- vestments, in c lud ing capital gains, are taxed at the rate of 35%. L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally n.a. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Foreign underwriters mu st comply w i th the same criteria as those that apply to do- mestic underwriters, as stated by the Securities Law. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Changes During 1997 June 17. The exchange rate band was widened to 15% from 7%. February 9. Residents were permitted to deposit in a resident foreign currency account a loan in foreign currency received from a nonresident or from an au tho r ized dealer bank, as well as the proceeds from selling foreign securities or income from them, even if the security was purchased w i th local currency. Imports and import payments February 9. The fo l low -up and reporting requ i remen ts for sums of up to $10,000 were eliminated for advance payment of impor ts and for t ran s it and brokerage t ransac t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers ISRAEL 461 February 9. Exporters were permitted to deposit in a bank abroad proceeds received from a financial institution abroad against the discounting of notes. February 9. Documentation requirements to obtain a travel allowance were liberal- ized. Advance tansfers of the exchange allowance for s tuden ts were permitted for up to one year. July 24. Student allowances for those s tudy ing at in s t i tu t ions of h igher education abroad were raised to $2,500 from $1,000 a month in addition to tu i t ion expenses and remittances for fam i ly support payments, which were increased to $10,000 from $2,000. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers July 24. Recipients of res t i tu t ion payments from Germany or of pensions from abroad have been permitted to deposit these paymen ts in bank accounts abroad. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts February 9. Residents were permitted to purchase abroad any security for wh ich a price is published by an in terna t ional quo t ing agency in accordance w i th the l ist de- termined by the Controller of Foreign Exchange (e.g., Reuters, Bloomberg, etc.), irre- spective of the stock market on which the security is traded. They may also purchase a new foreign security, at offer ing, if that agency has made in fo rma t ion about the offer- ing available. February 9. A foreign company registered in Israel was permitted to export p ro f i ts accrued from its ac t iv i t ies in Israel upon te rm ina t ion of these ac t iv i t ies, subject to the conditions set for th by the Comptroller of Foreign Currency. Controls on personal capital movements February 9. Emigrants were permitted to transfer abroad up to 20% of their assets or $50,000, wh ichever is higher. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors July 24. The l im it on f inanc ial inves tment abroad by provident funds was raised to 5% from 2% of the ir assets and to 50% from 10% of the ir assets for mu tual fund s. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Payments for imports Proceeds from exports Capital transactions Changes During 1998 February 12. Israeli residents and nonresidents trave l ing abroad were permitted to purchase $ 1,000 w i thout hav ing to present documentation at a border crossing upon leaving Israel. January 1. Israeli residents were permitted to purchase foreign currency w i th local currency and to deposit it in foreign currency accounts in Israeli banks. Israeli resi- dents were pe rm i t ted to t rans fer money between foreign currency deposits. February 8. Israeli residents l iv ing abroad were permitted to open foreign currency accounts in banks abroad. Israeli companies that issue securities abroad were permit- ted to place the proceeds of the o f fe r ing in a bank deposit abroad. February 12. The t ime l im it on pay ing advances for impor ts was abolished. February 12. The time l im it for receiving export proceeds was abolished. Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts January 1. The l im it on ho ld ings of foreign securities and foreign currency abroad by Israeli companies was abolished. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors January 1. All restrictions on mu tual fund investments in foreign securities were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of I ta ly is the I ta l ian l i ra. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Italy participates in the ERM of the EMS. The arrangement imp l ies that the Bank of I ta ly (BOI) stands ready to buy or sell currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified in te rven t ion rates. In pr inc ip le, in terven t ions w i t h in the EMS are made in pa r t ic ipa t ing currencies but may also take place in th i rd currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Par t ic ipan ts in the EMS do not m a in t a in exchange rates for other currencies w i t h in fixed l im i ts but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic f luc tua t ions in exchange rates. No. No. Prem iums and discounts in the forward exchange market are no rma l ly left to the in- terplay of market forces. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements C lear ing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th foreign countries are no rma l ly made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. I ta ly ma in ta ins clearing accounts w i th Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used on ly to fi- nance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the I ta l ian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through wh ich ou ts tand ing balances are settled w i t h in 90 days. On ly I ta ly is allowed to ma in ta in a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, w i th settle- men ts to be effected e i ther through au thor ized intermediaries (BOI, authorized banks, and the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion) or directly, by d raw ing on external accounts or by off- setting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office on their foreign transactions that exceed the equ iva lent of Lit 20 m i l l ion by f i l l i ng out a foreign exchange s ta t is t ical re tu rn. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Certain restrictions are imposed on the mak ing of payments and transfers for current in te rna t ional transactions in respect to Iraq, Libya, and the UNITA movement in Angola. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears No. ITALY 463 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for indus- trial purposes. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Minis- try of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, inc lud ing coins that are legal tender in a foreign coun try, are unrestricted. Impor ts of unref ined gold are not subject to a VAT, whereas imports of gold coins have been subject to a VAT of 20% since September 29, 1997. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take w i th them into or out of the country w i thout limits cash and securities in Italian lire and/or foreign currency. For fiscal and money- launder ing purposes, the transfer of cash and/or securities w i th a total amount exceeding the equivalent of Lit 20 million must be declared by f i l l ing out a form when crossing the border in to or out of non-EU countries and submitted to border customs offices; for EU-country entry or exit, this declaration must be submitted at banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations w i th in 48 hours after entry in to Italian territory or 48 hours prior to exit from Italian territory. For transfers by letter, the declaration must be submitted w i th in 48 hours after receipt or at the time of ma i l ing. The declaration has to be sent by banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations to the I ta l ian Foreign Exchange Office. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. These are accounts that have been blocked in compliance w i th UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 ITALY Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are governed by EC regulations according to which imports of most products, except for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barr i- ers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agri- cultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, w i thout prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Adm in is tra t ion of Control. Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports to non-EU countries are free, w i th the exception of high-technology products included in EC Regulation No. 3381/94 and of oil extracted from the seabed, wh i ch are subject to ministerial authorization. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities n.a. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 465 The public offer ing in Italy of securities issued by mu tual funds that are not covered by EU directives is subject to authorization. No. No. No. No. No. No. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Currency-ma tch ing regulations on as- sets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1997 April 30. Legislative Decree No. 125 recognized the freedom of transfer into or out of the country of cash and/or securities w i thout l im i ts. The only obligation is for resi- dents and nonresidents to make a declaration for amounts exceeding the equivalent of Lit 20 million. September 29. Imports of gold coins became subject to a VAT of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar is determined in the interbank market. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized deal- ers, cambios, and the Bank of Jamaica (BJ). The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Cambios are required to sell to the BJ a prescribed m i n im um amount of foreign exchange that they have purchased. Excess foreign exchange may be sold w i thout restrictions to the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the BJ. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound ster- ling, and the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The market is currently inactive. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an external account or a foreign currency account. Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. Jamaica is a member of the CARICOM. The clearing arrangements w i th in the framework of the CARICOM have been sus- pended since November 1, 1990. The BJ no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Trading in foreign exchange, except by and through an authorized dealer, is prohib- ited. The M in is ter of Finance (MOF) has the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Repayment of the loan from Iraq has been suspended in line w i th UN sanctions. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 467 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are no res tr ic t ions on the purchase, sale, or ho ld ing of gold for num i sma t ic or indu s t r ial purposes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Funds on these accounts ("A" accounts) may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. In cases when the transferee is a bank, licensed deposit-taking ins t i- tu t ion, credit un ion, bu i ld ing society, cambio operator, un it trust, or pension fund, the acqu is i t ion of the foreign currency must be in accordance w i th directions issued by the MOF. External accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Jamaica, w i th t rans fe rs from other ex ternal accounts, and w i th the proceeds from the sale of gold or foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for paymen ts to resi- dents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of for- eign currenc ies. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts ("B" accounts) are exempt from tax on interest earned, provided that deposits are held as cer t if ica tes of deposit w i th at least a one-year ma tu r i ty. Af ter September 22, 1991, new B accounts were not permitted to be opened. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. A accounts held by nonresidents are subject to the same regulations applied to those accounts held by residents, but nonresidents may open tax-free foreign currency A accounts. All credits to these accounts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from the local purchase of foreign exchange. Domestic currency accounts Same regu la t ions app ly as for accounts held by residents. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. No. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger pub- lic hea l th or secur i ty; o therw ise, goods may be imported freely w i thout a license. Im- port licenses, when requ ired, are issued by the Trade Board, wh ich is responsible to the M in i s ter of Indus t ry and Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles require a permit for government statistical purposes. Paymen ts for imports may be made by commercial banks w i thout reference to the BJ. Imports are subject to customs ta r i f fs of up to 25%, in compliance w i th the CET ar- rangement of the CARICOM. Some ag r i cu l tu r al products are subject to s tamp duties of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 JAMAICA Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most goods may be exported w i thout restriction. However, specific licenses are re- quired for exports of certain agricultural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, f irearms, antique furn i ture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewe l ry, and pe- troleum products. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities n.a. Capital Transactions On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to ministerial approval; a prospectus is required under the Companies Act. For banks, licensed deposit-taking in s t i tu t ion s, credit un ions, bu i ld ing societies, cam- bio operators, un it trus ts, and pension funds, the purchase must be in accordance w i th directions issued by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for purchases. On collective investment securities M in is ter ial approval is required for banks, licensed deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions, credit un ions, bu i ld ing societies, cambio operators, un it trus ts, and pension funds. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements JAMAICA 469 No. No. No. No. There is a cash reserve requirement of 20% for foreign currency deposits and of 25% for domestic currency deposits. The requirement is 40% for assets in foreign currency, compared to 47% for domestic currency assets. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to.institutional investors Mu tual fund schemes must be approved by the Securities Commission. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on portfolio invested abroad n.a. Limits (m in .) on portfolio invested locally The m in imum to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance shall not exceed 70% of the domestic l iab i l i t ies of the company. Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking ins t i tu t ions may be required to match the ir Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients w i th Jamaica dollar assets. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Nonresident companies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give inves tment advice. The nonresident company must be owned, controlled, or super- vised by persons who are citizens of, and are ac tua l ly residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM states as may be prescribed. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ap r il 1, 1964. Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supp ly and de- mand. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disor- derly cond i t ions in the markets. The p r inc ipal in te rven t ion currency is the U.S. do l lar. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major international foreign exchange mar- kets. There are no o f f ic ia l ly set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated m a in ly by the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF), the M in is try of International Trade and Indus try (MITI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) acting as the government's agent. Most of the authority for ve r i fy ing normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requ iremen ts are handled by the MITI. Impor ts from, and exports to, Iraq and Libya require permission from the MITI. For transactions that invo lve payments from Japan to residents of Iraq and L ibya or by residents of these countries to foreign countries through Japan, permission from the MOF is required. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola and Sierra Leone requires permission from the MITI. All other payments for inv is ib les from Japan to residents of Iraq and Libya require permission from the MITI. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic banknotes exceeding ¥5 m i l l ion requires m in i s te r ial approval. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required JAPAN 471 Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. No. Yes. Overseas deposits by residents up to the equ iva lent of ¥200 m i l l ion are not restricted. Qua l i f ied Japanese enterprises in insurance, transpor ta t ion, and securities are perm i t- ted to ma in ta in overseas deposits under b lanket l icens ing. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. No. Yes. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The Import Restriction System covers 77 items (four-d ig it Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), wh ich are subject to impo rt res t r ic t ions f a l l i ng under the state t rad ing, na t ional security, pub l ic hea l th, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain au thor iza t ion from the MITI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank au toma t ica l ly upon applica- tion. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or sh ipp ing areas, ind iv idu al au tho r iza t ion must be obtained from the MITI. Import se t t lemen ts effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open accounts or those invo lv ing payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of sh ipmen t) require au thor iza t ion from the MITI. Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 JAPAN Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1995, 27 export cartels were operating under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were subject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exportation to specified des t ina t ions either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposi- tion of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require ind iv idual licenses. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transactions, in principle, can be conducted freely unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice w i th a wa i t ing period, du r ing wh ich the MOF or the MITI may request or order that the transaction be suspended or modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice w i thout a wa i t ing period. U n t il March 31, 1998, acqu is i t ion of foreign securities for portfolio inve s tment by a resident from a nonresident or acquisition of securities for portfolio inves tment by a nonresident from a resident required, in principle, prior notice w i thout a wa i t ing pe- riod. However, acquisition of such securities through designated securities companies or acquisition equivalent to ¥100 million or less does not require notice. Un t il March 31, 1998, purchase of securities for portfolio inves tment by a nonresident from a resident required prior notice w i thout a wa i t ing period. Issue of yen-denominated securities abroad by nonresidents is subject to prior ap- proval. Local issue of yen-denominated securities and yen-related dual currency bonds is subject to prior notice, w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase abroad of securities for portfolio inves tment by a resident from a nonres ident requires prior notice w i thout a wa i t ing period. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issue of securities abroad by residents is subject to prior no t i f ica t ion, w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 473 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Un t il March 31, 1998, the purchase by a nonres ident of bonds and securities other than of participatory nature from a resident required a prior notice without a waiting period. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue of yen-denominated bonds and yen-related dual currency bonds is subject to prior notice w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issue of securities abroad by residents is subject to prior notice w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. Yen-denominated bonds and yen-related dual currency bonds issued abroad by residents cannot be sold to Japanese residents before the expiration of a 40-day wait- ing period. The 40-day wa i t ing period was abolished on Apr il 1, 1998. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inve s tment Loans are subject to pr ior notice w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period. Transactions requiring prior notice w i th a 20-day wa i t ing period may be subject to suspension or modifica- t ion by the MOF if, in the M in i s t e r 's op in ion, the transaction m ight adversely affect (1) in te rna t ional f in an c i al markets or Japan 's in terna t ional credit standing; (2) domes- tic and f inanc ial capital markets; (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese indus- tries or the smooth performance of the na t ional economy; and (4) imp lemen ta t ion of Japan 's in te rna t ional agreements, in te rna t ional peace and security, or the ma in tenance of public order. The MOF may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consideration is deemed w i thout adverse consequences. Un t il March 31, 1998, ou tward direct inves tmen ts were subject to prior notice, a 20-day w a i t ing period, and the poss ib i l i ty that the MOF could order a suspension or mod if ica t ion of certain inves tmen ts in line w i th in terna t ional peace and security or for the maintenance of pub l ic order. In practice, residents may make investments imme- diately after the prior notice, except for a limited number of cases. Effec t ive Ap r il 1, 1998, ou twa rd inves tmen ts by residents require on ly an ex post report w i th in 20 days from the execution of investments. However, prior notice w i ll s t i ll be required for direct inves tmen ts in a l im i ted number of indus t r ies, such as the manu fac tu re of arms and f isher ies. Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange There is (1) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign-currency- denom ina ted bonds, exc lud ing corporate bonds issued by nonresidents, equ iva lent to 30% of their net wo r th; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign- cu r rency -denom ina ted securities by the loan t rust accounts of t rust banks. Foreign loans by banks are lega l ly subject to prior notice w i th a wa i t ing period bu t, in most cases, may be made upon no t if ica t ion. The banks are free to lend yen on a long- term bas is overseas. This lend ing requires perm iss ion, except when the lender is an authorized foreign exchange bank. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in fore ign exchange Purchase of these securities from a resident requires perm iss ion, but purchase from nonres iden ts is subject to pr ior no t if ica t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 JAPAN Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad n.a. L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad The l im i ts are: (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies ho ld ing securities is- sued by nonresidents; (2) the same ratio that applies to purchases of foreign-currency- denominated assets; (3) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for ho ld ing by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds; and (4) 30% of pension trust assets for foreign-currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds (for the new money deposited from Apr il 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceiling was raised to 50% on the basis of each ins t i tu t ional account, and the ceiling for fore ign-aff i l ia ted companies was raised to 70%). Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts April 1. The prior notice requirement for portfolio inves tmen ts by residents and non- residents was abolished. Controls on direct inves tment April 1. The prior notice requirement for ou tward inves tmen ts by residents was abol- ished. However, the requirement w i ll still apply to direct inves tmen ts in a l im i ted number of indus tr ies, such as the manu fac tu re of arms and fisheries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan d ina r. The Cen tral Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, wh i ch, a l though legal tender, do not c i rcu la te but are available to residents, nonresidents, and domestic num isma t is ts. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The dinar is off ic ia l ly pegged to the SDR, but in practice it has been pegged to the dollar since late 1995. A fee of 0.1% may be levied by the CBJ on foreign currency transfers. Amoun ts transferred from customers' deposits in foreign currency, as well as transfers made by governmental entities, d ip loma t ic m iss ions, and nonprof it and hu- man i tar ian organizations are exempt from this fee. No. No. Licensed banks may buy foreign currencies without limits against the dinar from their customers on a forward deal basis, and they may sell foreign currencies against the d inar to the ir customers on a forward deal basis to pay for impor ts in to Jordan. For corporations or projects considered to be of v i tal national interest, the CBJ may offer a forward exchange fac i l i ty in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordan ian banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an arrangement w i th the Syrian Arab Repub l ic. There is an arrangement w i th the Repub l ic of Yemen. There is no exchange control, but the Foreign Exchange Depar tment of the CBJ col- lects data for s ta t is t ical purposes on ly. Import policy is determined by the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry and Trade in cooperation w i th the M in is t r ies of Finance, Supp ly, Ag r icu l tu re, and Health. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 JORDAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list For statistical purposes, nonresident accounts are opened w i th proof of domicile. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The list includes imports from countries that have bilateral agreements w i th Jordan and imports by certain in s t i tu t ion s. Import taxes and/or tariffs Cus toms du t ies are levied at one single rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Oil imports are conducted by a state agency. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Licenses for exports are not required except for exports to countries that have b i la teral agreements w i th Jordan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 477 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Licensed banks and f inanc ial companies may extend credit facilities in dinars to resi- dents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits. The amounts of credit facilities extended to nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits should not exceed 5% of total credit granted by a bank or a f inanc ial company. Furthermore, the balance of the foreign currency deposit used as collateral against the extended credit facilities should not, at any time, be less than the outstanding balance of credit fac i l i- ties. Loans extended to finance the export sector are excluded from prior approval requirements, leaving such loans to be decided upon freely by licensed banks, pro- vided that banks continue to comply w i th CBJ prudential requirements. Nonresident inves tment is restricted to a max imum of 50% ownership or subscription in shares of m in ing, trading and trade services, and construction and contracting sec- tors. The amount of investment in the project should not be less than JD 50,000. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Allowed on ly if reciprocal treatment exists. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 50% of the ir foreign exchange deposits. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 50% of the ir foreign exchange deposits. Inv e s tm ent regulations Abroad by banks There are no controls except for foreign exchange exposure l im i ts. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 JORDAN Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws There are no regulations for issuance of these securities, but portfolio inves tmen ts are not restricted. Non-Jordan ian inves tmen ts are restricted to a m ax imum of 50% owne rsh ip or sub- scription in shares of the three sectors of m in ing, trade and trade services, and con- struction and cons truc t ing sectors. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions July 16. Restrictions on capital account transactions were liberalized. Controls on direct inves tment July L Restrictions on foreign na t iona ls on ho ld ing ma jo r i ty stakes in most companies listed on the Amm an Stock Exchange were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 16, 1996. Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakh tenge. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The off ic ial exchange rates of the tenge against the dollar, the deutsche mark, and the Russian ruble are determined once a week on the basis of rates in the foreign ex- change, in terbank, and exchange bureau markets, and are announced each Monday by the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK). Official rates for more than 30 other cur- rencies are set on the basis of cross rates in international markets. The currency market includes the A lma ty Financial Ins trumen ts Exchange (AFIE), wh ich conducts da i ly trading in online mode using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter inter- bank market, and a network of exchange bureaus handling foreign exchange cash transactions. Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of the ir clients. Banks can also trade in an over-the-counter interbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are more than 2,000 exchange bureaus that conduct foreign exchange cash transactions. In accordance w i th the "Basic Guidelines for 1997 Monetary Policy of the NBK," the NBK has been regulating the nominal exchange rate of the tenge in accordance with the forecast inflation trend via active interventions on the AFIE. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Foreign exchange fu tu res are quoted at the AFIE. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions between residents must be effected in tenge, unless otherwise stipu- lated by law. Transactions between residents and nonresidents can be made in any currency as long as they comply w i th the relevant foreign exchange regulations of the NBK. The NBK has the right to impose restrictions on the payment currency for a resident's export operations. Settlements w i th foreign partners are made through a system of correspondent ac- counts of the NBK and commercial banks. The NBK controls exchange transactions, supervises authorized banks, regulates open foreign exchange positions, and has the au tho r i ty to reintroduce surrender requirements. The M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) supervises the licensing of a l im i ted number of im- ports and exports, monitors transactions in precious metals and stones, monitors capi- tal transactions (i.e., external debt), and supervises the payment of export and impo rt du t ies. Au thor ized banks and nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are agents for foreign exchange control. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 480 KAZAKHSTAN International security restrictions Payment arrears Private No. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade All gold produced from Kazakh raw materials must first be offered on the p r ima ry market, where the NBK and the MOF have the f irst r ight to buy refined precious met- als, as well as the right to participate as sellers. Thereafter, the gold can be sold on the secondary market, inc lud ing in terna t ional markets. Au thor ized banks and other ju r id i- cal persons are allowed to par t ic ipa te in the p r ima ry market. Memorial and jub i lee coins produced from precious metals are regulated by currency regulations. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Effective November 26, 1997, s imp l if ied customs procedures were introduced under wh ich a declaration may be made at the insistence of na tural persons, a l though the customs office has the power to impose fu ll customs control. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Documen ts cer t ify ing the legal origin of funds are required when exporting more than $10,000. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. A license from the NBK is required to open these accounts, w i th the exception of resident na tural persons temporarily located abroad. Accounts may be denom ina ted in foreign or domestic currency. Resident jur id ical persons may acquire foreign currency on the domestic market on ly to effect settlements w i th nonresidents and to meet obligations w i th regard to credits in foreign currency received from authorized banks and in other instances s t ipu la ted by legislative acts. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Nonresident ju r id ical persons may acquire foreign currency on the domestic foreign exchange market of the Repub l ic of Kazakhs tan on ly for resources in tenge received as a result of the performance of current foreign excange transac t ions, as well as in other instances by legislative acts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 481 Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Prepayment prior to 180 days must first be registered with the NBK. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Presentation to an authorized bank of the relevant contract, agreement, or accord is required. Effec t ive Ju ly 1, 1997, a Transaction Passport must be compiled for each import transac t ion, and the import transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee un t il fu ll completion. Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses are required for 11 categories of goods. Two categories of goods are subject to restrictions for pub l ic health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties and excises are levied on imported goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds must be repatriated, unless a license is granted by the NBK. Transfers of foreign currency to accounts of authorized banks must be done w i th in 10 days of the date payment is made. The NBK has the right to introduce a surrender requirement at any time. No. Effec t ive Ju ly 1, 1997, a Transaction Passport must be compiled for each export trans- action, and the export transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee un t il f u ll completion. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Yes. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection There is selective independent inspection of exports. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes A negative list based on security reasons requires export licenses for 16 commodity groups. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Bona fide tests are applied to all payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 KAZAKHSTAN F re igh t / insu rance Quantitative limits Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits When re insur ing w i th a foreign insu rer (reinsurer), the proportion of the reinsured pa r ty 's own l iab l i l i ty (retention of l iab i l i ty) should represent at least 5% of the total vo lume of l iab i l i ty. All inves tmen ts by nonresidents exceeding 180 days and $100,000 must be registered w i th the NBK. All inves tmen ts by nonresidents exceeding 180 days and $100,000 must be registered w i th the NBK. There are country-specific l im i ts for business trave l. Indicative limits/bona fide test For amoun ts exceeding $10,000, a document ce r t i fy ing the legal origin of the funds is required. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Indicative limits/bona fide test The legal or ig in of funds mu st be documented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds should be repatriated, un less the NBK grants a license. Surrender requirements The NBK has the r ight to introduce a surrender regime at any time. Restrictions on use of funds Resources in foreign currency may be used on ly for settlements w i th nonresidents and for repayment of credit in foreign currency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be registered w i th the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The circulation, issue, or sale requires the approval of the Na t ional Securities Commission (NSC). Purchase abroad by residents An NBK license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the NSC is required. Bonds or other debt securities Prior approval of the NBK is required. On money market ins t rumen ts Prior approval of the NBK is required. On collective inve s tment securities Prior approval of the NBK is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the NBK is required. Registration w i th the NBK is required for credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 483 To residents from nonresidents Registration w i th the NBK is required for credits w i th a ma tur i ty of more than 180 days and in an amount above the equ iva lent of $100,000. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents A license is required for operations w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days. To residents from nonresidents Registration w i th the NBK is required for credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than 180 days and in an amount above the equ iva lent of $100,000. Guarantees, sureties, and f in an c i al backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Prior approval of the NBK is required. A new law on State Support of Direct Inves tment was adopted in February 1997. The law c lar if ies the ru les and regulations governing direct inves tmen ts (both foreign and domestic) and provides government guarantees to protect the interest of investors. The law also strengthens the coordinating roles of the State Committee on Inves tment w i th the aim of fac i l i ta t ing the inves tment process in the country. This law also au thor izes the Committee to provide tax privileges on a case-by-case basis for new investors in priority sectors of the economy. Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Residents must obtain a license from the NBK to invest abroad. Prior registration w i th the NBK is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A license from the NBK is required. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Transfers from nonresidents to residents in payment for property rights and other rights to real estate in an amount above the equ iva lent of $100,000 are subject to registration w i th the NBK. Credits by residents to nonresidents for a term of more than 180 days are subject to licensing w i th the NBK. Credits by nonresidents to residents for a term of more than 180 days and in an amount equ iva lent to more than $100,000 are subject to registration w i th the NBK. Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBK is required to receive credits for a term of more than 180 days. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad A license from the NBK is required. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) A license from the NBK is required when extending credit in foreign currencies for a term of more than 180 days. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Au tho r ized banks sha ll be entitled to provide credits in foreign currency to resident ju r id i c al persons on ly, in accordance w i th noncash procedures. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 KAZAKHSTAN Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. The open position in any one currency is limited to 30% of a bank's cap i ta l, and the total open position is limited to 50% of a bank 's capital. Yes. Yes. Yes. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws A license is required for professional activities on the securities market and stock exchanges. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1997 December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Kazakhstan was reclassified to ''managed floating" from "independently floating." November 26. Simplified customs procedures were introduced. July 1. A Transaction Passport must be compiled for each import t ransac t ion, and the import transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee u n t il f u ll completion. July 1. A Transaction Passport must be compiled for each export transaction, and the export transaction must be monitored by the Customs Committee u n t il f u ll completion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1994. Currency The currency of Kenya is the Kenya shilling. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign trave ler's checks. The off ic ial exchange rate is set at the prev ious day 's average market rate. The U.S. dollar is the principal inter- vention currency. The off ic ial exchange rate applies only to government and government-guaranteed external debt-service paymen ts and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts w i th their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Kenya is a member of COMESA. The Central Bank Act gives the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Kenya is negotiating to reschedule arrears amoun t ing to $62 million that accrued to commercial banks prior to end-1993. Off ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or No. bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 486 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. The inspec t ion is required for all impor ts w i th an f.o.b. value of more than $1,000. These are subject to inspection for qua l i ty, qu an t i ty, and price, and require a clean report of f ind ing s. Banks are allowed to effect clean paymen ts (for impor ts) provided they obtain an unde r tak ing from the importer to subm it the documents later. A copy of the import declaration, a f inal invo ice, and a copy of the customs entry must be subm i t ted. Nega t ive list The list includes a few items for hea l th, security, and env ironmen tal reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quo tas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Coffee, tea, and ho r t icu l tu ral produce may be exported on ly if a sales contract is regis- tered w i th the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Ho r t icu l tu ral Crops Development Au tho r i ty, respectively. Exports of certain foods and ag r icu l tu ral products require special licenses to ensure adequate supp l ies in the domestic market. Exports of m in- erals, precious stones, and other essential strategic ma ter ia ls are also subject to special licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 487 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase a max imum of 40% of shares of pr imary or sec- ondary issues. A nonresident cannot purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or primary issues. There is no control on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, issuance of securities by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Au thor i ty (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issuance of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior approval by the CBK. On collective inves tment securities The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a participating nature. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 KENYA Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure is limited to a max imum of 20% of paid-up capital (assigned). Foreign exchange exposure is defined as net foreign assets reported on the balance sheet. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exchange arrangement December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Kenya was reclassified to "managed floating" from "independently floating." Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kiribati is the Australian dollar. Kiribati coins are also in circulation. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes daily rates for 15 currencies on the basis of their respective values against the Aus tra l ian dollar. No. No. Forward exchange market The BOK provides forward contracts up to three months of ma tu r i ty. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Blocked accounts Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in Australian currency or in any other currency. Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken w i th the BOK, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. No. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 KIRIBATI Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. n.a. Imports of certain goods are prohibited for health, safety, or env ironmen tal reasons. n.a. n.a. Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, f lour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Copra, a dried coconut meat that produces coconut oil, can be exported only th rough the K i r iba ti Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. However, informa t ion on amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investment is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment n .a. No. n.a. Capital Transactions The authorities encourage investments in the export-promoting or import-substituting sectors. All applications for foreign investment up to $A 250,000 must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission for approval. Applications w i th a larger capital con- t r ibu t ion are approved by the Cabinet. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Currency The currency of Korea is the Korean won. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Un t il December 15, 1997, the exchange rate of the won against the dollar was deter- mined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for the won-dollar spot transactions of the prev ious day. Dur ing each business day, the won rate against the dollar in the interbank market was allowed to fluctuate w i th in margins of ±2.25% against the market average rate of the previous day. On December 16, 1997, the ex- change rate of the won was allowed to be determined on the basis of supp ly and demand. No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, fu tu res transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between the won and for- eign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts in respect of interbank transactions; however, the terms of forward contracts between foreign exchange banks and nonbank customers mu st be based on a bona f ide transaction. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th other countries may be made in any convertible currency except the won. Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For th is purpose, non- residents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for cur- rent transactions as we ll as for reinsurance contracts and inves tmen ts in domestic stocks. No. The M in i s t ry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) in i t ia tes policy w i th respect to pre- scription of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes most of the above func t ions; it also regulates the operations of the exchange market and may in te rvene in i t. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on ex ternal trade Res iden ts are allowed to impo rt and export gold o ther than gold coins in c i rcu la t ion, subject to the same regu la t ions as those applied to merchandise trade (Foreign Trade Act). 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Banknotes in excess of W 8 million may not be exported w i thout permission from the BOK. Banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 may not be exported w i thout spe- c if ic permission. Upon leaving Korea, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency up to the amount they have sold du r ing their stay in Korea. The importation of Korean currency in excess of W 8 m i l l ion is restricted. Residents and nonresidents must register domestic or foreign currency they br ing into Korea at a customs office if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed w i thout restriction. Ins t i tu t ional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset d ive rs i f ica t ion purposes w i thout a quan t i ta t ive ceiling. General corporations and ind iv idua ls are permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 m i l l ion and $50,000 a year, respectively. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Remittances from these accounts and w i thd rawa ls in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for rem i t- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and w i th- drawa ls of foreign means of payment or for paymen ts relating to approved transac t ions. Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Under the Imports D ivers if ica t ion Program introduced to promote a geograph ica l ly balanced import s t ruc tu re, there are 113 i tems for w h i ch impo r ts are restricted; the program is to be phased out by June 1999. Negative l ist Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs REPUBLIC OF KOREA 493 About 3,000 products are subject to special import approval procedures, mostly due to health and other reasons, under the Import Notice. As of J u ly 1, 1997, eight of the 10,859 basic items on the Harmon ized System were subject to license. The eight re- stricted items under the GATT balance of paymen ts prov is ion are scheduled to be liberalized by January 1, 2001. However, quan t i ta t ive restrictions w i ll con t inue to be applied for rice, subject to Annex 5 of the WTO Agreement on Agr icu l ture. A trade commission may recommend quotas and qua l i ty standards if it has de term ined that certain imports have harmed domestic indus tr ies. There are four quotas on m i lk products. There are ad jus tment ta r i f fs on 62 products; regular ta r i f fs and ta r i ff quotas on most products ex is t. There are a n t i d um p i ng du t ies on 17 products. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Yes. State import monopoly There is state monopoly on the impo rt of 18 ag r icu l tu ral products. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings exceeding $50,000 must be repatriated to Korea w i th in six mon ths, except in specific cases. However, general trad ing companies licensed under the For- eign Trade Act and enterprises whose trade va lue in the previous year exceeded $5 m i l l ion are allowed to retain overseas deposits up to 50% of th is va lue w i t h in the l im it of $500 m i l l ion. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes There are export bans on 14 items for environmental reasons. There are quotas under the ATC and vo lun ta ry res tra int on n ine products under b i l a t- eral agreements. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Comm iss ions Prior approval Approval of the BOK is required for the remittance of commissions not d i rec t ly linked w i th trade and for remittances exceeding the established l im i t s. Quantitative limits The l im i ts are $50,000 and 10% of the va lue of the un d e r ly ing transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Prior approval The transfer of income from securities acquired th rough inhe r i tance is subject to prior approva l. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The mon th ly a l lowance for residents s tay ing abroad for over 30 days is $10,000. For those s tay ing abroad over one year, a remittance of $50,000 ( inc lud ing basic travel allowances) is allowed w i t h in two weeks after the t ime of departure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Indicative limits/bona fide test Res iden ts trave l ing abroad may, in general, purchase foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a t r ip as the ir basic travel allowance; add i t ional foreign ex- change may also be purchased for specified expenses, inc lud ing transportation costs. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits The basic mon th ly allowance for students under 20 years old is $3,000; for s tuden ts w i th a dependent f am i l y, an add i t ional a l lowance of $500 for a spouse and each c h i ld is allowed. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Quantitative limits Fees related to f in an c i al or insu rance businesses requ ire MOFE app rova l, and o ther fees require BOK app rova l. Salaries, except for basic l i v i ng expenses and retirement allowances, may be remitted to the home countries. Residents are allowed to rem it up to $5,000 a transaction to the ir parents and ch i ld ren l iv ing abroad for l iv ing expenses and to the ir relatives abroad for wedd ing g if ts or fune ral donations, w i th no restrictions on the number of remittances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Residents can make payments abroad by credit card for expenditures relating to travel and tourism; for amoun ts exceeding $5,000 a mon th, the foreign exchange au thor i t ies must ve r i fy the au then t ic i ty of the payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Residents are permitted to hold foreign currency earned from inv is ib le transactions, but once converted into won, a limit applies to reconversion. Residents and nonresi- dents must register domestic and foreign exchange they bring into Korea at customs if the amount exceeds the equ iva lent of $10,000. The impor ta t ion by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 2 m i l l ion is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from cons truc t ion ac t iv i ty abroad must be deposited in fore ign currency accounts at domestic foreign exchange banks, and prof i ts may be converted into won fo l low ing the completion of each project. Domestic f i rms engaged in in terna t ional cons truc t ion and service businesses may deposit abroad up to 30% of the balance of the ir overseas contracts or $3 m i l l ion, wh ichever is greater. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Nonresidents may freely acquire listed stocks up to 50% i n d i v i d u a l ly and 55% collec- t ive ly of the local number of shares issued. The ceilings of aggregate and ind iv idu al ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 495 foreigner's ownership of listed shares in the Korea Stock Exchange (KSE) were raised to 23% from 20%, and to 6% from 5%, respectively, as of May 2, 1997, and also raised to 26% from 23%, and to 7% from 6%, respectively, as of November 3, 1997. These were fu r ther increased to 50% from 26%, and to 50% from 7%, respectively, as of December 12, 1997. As of December 30, 1997, the ceiling on aggregate fore igner's ownersh ip of Korean shares increased to 55% from 50%. Foreign ins t i tu t ions are eligible to list their shares on the KSE in the fo rm of deposi- tary receipts. These ins t i tu t ions include in terna t ional f inanc ial organizations, mun ic i- pal governments, pub l ic organizations, and general companies. General investors, or ind iv idu a l s, and general corporations are permitted to invest in forcing securities w i thout restriction. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Companies listed on the KSE or the KOSDAQ can issue convertible bonds, bonds w i th warran ts, eurobonds, and depository receipts abroad after reporting to the MOFE. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners have been free to purchase listed government, special, and corporate bonds w i thout restriction since December 30, 1997. Foreign ins t i tu t ions may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. However, the issuer must submit a prior report to the MOFE and be given prior ap- proval by Financial Supervisory Council. Purchase abroad by residents The sale or issuance abroad by residents sha ll be declared to the MOFE. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment funds and international beneficiary certificates established w i th the approval of the MOFE can purchase domestic money market securities w i thout approval of the au thor i t ies. For transactions of money market securities between resi- dents and nonresidents other than those mentioned above, approval of the MOFE is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require MOFE approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Certificates of deposit and commercial paper may be regarded as securities like equi- ties and bonds by the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), Decree (FEMD), and Regulation (FEMR). These money market securities may be issued in won or foreign currencies. The issue of foreign-currency-denominated securities on a foreign money market must be filed w i th the MOFE. Investors who have been approved to purchase foreign money market securities are allowed to sell such securities. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The same controls apply as for shares or other securities of a participatory na ture. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of beneficiary certificates by trust companies, either in the domestic or the foreign market, is subject to MOFE approval. The approval system on the issuance of beneficiary certificates is designed especially to protect investors and may be re- garded as a k ind of pruden t ial regulation. The size of the issuance of beneficiary cer- tificates shall be established at an appropriate amount in consideration of the volume of the capital in f low resu l t ing from the capital market opening. Purchase abroad by residents Such purchase is subject to approval by the MOFE. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Issuance and sale of collective inves tment securities by foreign trust companies in the domestic market require MOFE approval. A l though the purchase of domestic collec- t ive investment securities by nonresidents requires MOFE approval, nonresidents may sell domestic collective investment securities they have law fu l ly acquired. Foreign inves tment funds or in te rna t ional benef ic iary certificates established w i th perm iss ion from the MOFE may purchase domestic ins t rumen ts and c la ims w i thout ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents reporting. Also, foreign banks can purchase domestic ins trumen ts and claims from domestic foreign exchange banks. Other transactions require permission f rom the MOFE. Stock index fu tu res are traded on the stock exchange, and nonres iden ts' ac- cess to the market allowed w i th in certain limits. The issue of foreign ins trumen ts and claims on the domestic financial market requires MOFE approval. It is not necessary for nonresidents to obtain permission or subm it a report when selling domestic ins t rumen ts and claims once they are permitted to pur- chase them. Residents other than foreign exchange banks may trade through a foreign exchange bank w i th in certain limits equivalent to actual demand. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require approval by the MOFE. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Small and med ium enterprises, f i rms engaged in social overhead capital projects, for- eign-financed f i rms w i th h igh technology, and domestic f i rms that w i sh to repay over- seas borrowing earlier than contracted may borrow abroad. Foreign borrow ing by these f i rms of more than $1 m i l l ion and w i th ma tur i t ies of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign-financed companies are, in principle, subject to the same regulations governing foreign borrowing as other enter- prises. Deferred receipt exports on an LC basis, for wh ich the settlement period is less than three years from the sh ipment of goods or s ign ing of the export b i ll of exchange, are allowed w i thout restriction. For settlement periods of more than three years, these exports are allowed in the fo l low ing cases w i th va l ida t ion from a foreign exchange bank: (1) when payment is guaranteed by the importing coun try's central government agency or central bank; (2) when they are covered by export insurance; and (3) when qua l if ied foreign bank ing ins t i tu t ions, as designated by the BOK, open LCs, and guar- antee paymen t. Imports exceeding 360 days are allowed w i th the va l ida t ion of a foreign exchange bank in cases where refund guarantees must be provided by the exporting coun t ry 's central government agency, central bank, or qua l i f ied bank ing in s t i tu t ion. Residents w ish ing to enter in to lease contracts for assets o ther than real estate from nonresidents shall obtain va l ida t ion from a fore ign exchange bank. All methods of settlement for trade in goods and services are free, except for those methods specified on the negative list under the FEMR. By residents to nonresidents These credits require prior approval from the MOFE. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Foreign exchange banks may borrow abroad. Borrowing by h igh- techno logy, foreign- financed manu fac tu r ing companies is allowed up to 100% of the foreign-invested capital. Also, ma tu r i ty is limited to three years or less, and l im i ta t ions are imposed on the use of fund s. Foreign borrowing repayable w i t h in three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. The m a x im um ma tu r i ty period permitted for deferred pay- ments is 360 days for imports of raw materials for export production. On April 16, 1998, the MOFE abolished regulations, in accordance w i th OECD rules, on the usage of long-term loans w i th maturities of over f ive years that are brought in to the country by foreign manufac turers. Residents, other than banks, must obtain approval from the BOK, except for the fol- lowing cases: (1) when a foreign importer is granted an offshore loan by a foreign exchange bank to f inance imports f rom a resident, and the said resident pledges a guarantee in foreign currency; (2) when a resident concludes a contract guaran tee ing performance or bearing respons ib i l i ty for the l i a b i l i t i es assumed by the nonres iden t, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment REPUBLIC OF KOREA 497 who in turn is providing a guarantee, such as bid bonds or other sureties, related to international bids or contracts entered into by a resident; and (3) when residents pro- vide guarantees to serve as collateral for spot f inanc ing. There are no restrictions on the provision of underwritten backup facilities by the domestic institutional investors when they participate in an international underwriting syndicate. Any resident may freely accept a guarantee relating to an overseas borrowing to fi- nance an overseas investment from another resident, in wh ich the surety for the guar- antee is pledged by nonresidents. Other transactions related to the creation of credits arising from liability guarantee contracts between residents and nonresidents require approval from the BOK. Therefore, residents are free to take up f inanc ial backup fa- cilities offered by nonresidents as long as the issuance of overseas securities has been properly reported. Prior to liberalization of ou tward inves tmen ts, investors were required to no t i fy the Foreign Exchange Bank. Currently such no t if ica t ion is required only in the case of inves tmen ts exceeding $50 m i l l ion and where (1) the total amount of inves tment ex- ceeds one-half of the equity of the company or exceeds the company's issued capital; (2) the company's debt is greater than its assets; and (3) the overseas subsidiary of the domestic company have debts greater than its assets, or if losses exceed $100 million or if the firm shows f ive successive years of losses (excluding the year of establish- ment). Prior to th is no t if ica t ion, the investment plans must be assessed by the Outward Investment Advisory Committee. On August 1, 1997, the debt l im i ts on corporations mak ing overseas direct inves t- ments, whereby 20% of investments exceeding $100 million had to be financed by a f i rm 's own capital, were abolished. Equ i ty participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in new ly established or existing enterprises. Direct inves tment by means of mergers and acquisitions is also allowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enter- prise, approval from the MOFE is required for f inanc ial institutions; approval of the BOK is required for non f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and no t i f ica t ion to the BOK for estab- l i shment of an office. Inves tmen ts in pub l ic u t i l i t ie s, radio, and television are restricted. Direct inves tmen ts are allowed in all indus t r ies, except those specified on a "negative" l is t, inc lud ing about 1.5% of all industries listed in the Korean standard indus tr ial classification, but excluding those in the manu fac tu r ing sector. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships w i th local firms. There are no restrictions on the max imum value of foreign inves t- ment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that invo lve ad- vanced technology. Postinvestment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equa l ly. All foreign direct inves tmen ts, except those in industries on the negative l is t, are sub- ject to a no t if ica t ion requ iremen t. A no t i f ica t ion is deemed accepted by a foreign ex- change bank unless it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Overseas direct inves tmen ts in the fields of lease and sale of real estate, construction, and operation of golf courses are prohibited. No app rova ls or no t if ica t ions are required for acqu is i t ion of overseas real estate by foreign exchange banks, govern- ment au thor i t ies, and residents if given as gifts or through inher i tance from non- residents. However, a notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate necessary for approved business ac t iv i t ies costing up to $10 m i l l ion. For real estate necessary for approved business ac t iv i t ies exceeding $10 m i l l ion, permission from the BOK is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Purchase locally by nonresidents The following are not restricted: acquisition of domestic land or mortgages, leasing of domestic real estate by nonresidents, and acquisition of real estate or associated rights other than land by nonresidents from nonresidents. Notification to the BOK is re- quired for the acquisition of real estate and its associated rights, inc lud ing real estate acquired through inheritance or as a g i ft from nonresidents, and the es tab l ishment of fixed collateral not assuming the transfer of ownership. Approval of the MOFE is required for real estate acquisitions other than those specified above. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval from the BOK is required. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Loans by residents to nonresidents require the approval of the MOFE. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Payments that exceed $10,000 shall be approved by the Governor of the BOK. Inhe r i- tances in the form of securities shall be declared to the Governor of the BOK, and those of other forms shall be approved by or declared to the Governor of the BOK. The ceiling of emigration settlement expenses is $400,000 for a head of a household and $200,000 a person for members of a household. Af ter ob ta in ing na t iona l i ty, the overseas sojourner can w i thdraw remaining domestic properties. For reference, the foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the fund ing of maturities of one year or more and for amoun ts exceeding $10 m i l l ion. Foreign exchange banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions may extend credits w i thout re- striction to nonresidents in foreign currency. Foreign currency loans by resident banks to nonresidents of less than $2 m i l l ion are permitted freely. Loans ranging from $2 million to $20 m i l l ion require ex post notification to the MOFE, and loans exceed- ing $20 million require prior notification to the MOFE. Other credit ins t i tu t ions may extend credits up to $10 million. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are loan ceilings according to the economic sector. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts are 7% for resident ac- counts and 1% for nonresident accounts. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im i ts are as follows: (1) overall overbought position, 15% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month; (2) overall oversold position, 10% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month or $20 m i l l ion, whichever is greater; and (3) spot oversold position, 3% of the total equity capital or $5 m i l l ion, whichever is greater. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 499 Provisions specific to institutional investors In add i t ion to the foreign exchange laws or foreign exchange controls, all ins t i tu t ional inves tors have the ir own rules for asset operations. For example, securities companies must keep the ir proportion of the portfolio invested w i t h in 30% of the ir total assets. Insurance companies and securities inves tment trust companies can ma in ta in the ir portfolio abroad w i th in 10% and 30% of the ir total assets, respectively. L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on po r t fo l io invested abroad n.a. Limits (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad Ins t i tu t ional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes w i thout a quan t i ta t ive ceiling. General corporations and ind iv idua ls are permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 m i l l ion and $50,000 a year, respectively. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Restrictions imposed by the Securities Laws are as follows: (1) domestic securities inves tmen ts by nonresident foreign na t iona ls are regulated by "Rules on Sales and Purchases of Securities by Foreigners" established by the Securities Exchange Com- m iss ion (SEC). The ma in contents of the Ru les inc lude inve s tment ceilings, inves t- ment procedures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities inves tmen ts by residents are regulated by "Rules on Sales and Purchases of Overseas Securities" established by the SEC. The main contents of the Rules include securities' e l ig ib i l i ty for inves tment and transaction procedures, etc.; (3) issuance of overseas securities by residents are regulated by "Rules on Issuance of Overseas Se- curities" and "Rules on Management of Listed Companies on Overseas Securities Markets" established by the SEC. The ma in contents of the Rules inc lude the e l ig ib i l- ity of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting, etc.; and (4) international securities transactions by residents are regulated by "Rules on Securities Business by Domestic Branches of Foreign Securities Com- panies" established by the SEC. The ma in contents of the Rules include the accumu- lation of retained earnings and the obligation of subm i t t ing f inanc ial statements, etc. The ma in contents of "Rules on Overseas Securities Business by Domestic Securities Companies" include the restriction on the inves tment of domestic listed stocks by overseas branches of securities companies. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement December 16. The exchange rate of the won was allowed to float freely. Imports and import payments July L Eight items on the Harmonized System are now subject to a license. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts March 31. The total quan t i ta t ive ceilings on the issuance of foreign-currency- denominated securities abroad were raised. May 2. The l im it on foreign ownersh ip of Korean equities was raised. November 3. The l im it of foreign owne rsh ip of Korean equ i t ies was raised fu r the r. December 12. The l im i ts of foreign owne rsh ip of Korean equ i t ies were increased to 50%. December 30. The ce i l ing on aggregate foreigners' owne rsh ip of Korean shares was increased to 55%. August L The debt l im i ts on corporations mak ing overseas direct inves tmen ts, whereby 20% of inve s tmen ts exceeding $100 m i l l ion had to be financed by a f i rm 's own cap i ta l, were abolished. Changes During 1998 April 16. The MOFE abolished regu la t ions on usage of long-term loans w i th ma tu r i- ties of over f ive years th at are b rought in to the coun t ry by foreign manu fac tu re rs. Controls on direct inves tment Capital transactions Controls on credit operations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1963. Currency The currency of Kuwa it is the Kuwa i ti dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The external value of the Kuwa i ti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the dinar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwa i t 's trade and financial partners. The Central Bank of Kuwa it (CBK) sets the exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest market quotations in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Official coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. GCC central banks ma in ta in a regional arrangement to exchange GCC banknotes. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control Exchange control authorities There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign exchange. All trade w i th Israel is prohibited. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Monetary au thor i t ies and merchants registered w i th the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus try (MCI) may import and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18- karat fine; gold jewe lry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufac tured, are subject to an import du ty of 4%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 501 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables. Licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwa i ti merchants and companies. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwa i ti citizen, a f i rm in which all partners are Kuwa i ti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51% of the stock. Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwait-produced goods up to a price margin of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries, and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. The importation of oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foodstuffs con- taining pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over f ive years old, portable tele- phones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders is prohibited. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses valid for one-time use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed indu s t r ial establishments w i th the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the MCI. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under ind iv idual or specific licenses. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for ind iv idual commodities, wh ich are also va l id for one year. K uw a it applies the un i fo rm tariff structure of the GCC. A m in imum tariff of 4% ap- plies to non-GCC imports, while no ta r i f fs apply to imports w i th at least 40% local va lue added from other GCC members. Imports of foods tuffs, as well as some ma- ch ine ry and equ ipmen t, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import du t ies. Kuwa it applies higher tar iffs in industries where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local market. Tariff rates d i f fer depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic value added, protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing imports. The degree of protection g iven by the fo rmu la is reduced by 5% in the case of consumer goods. The m ax imum du ty imposed on products that compete w i th locally manu fac tu red goods is 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 KUWAIT Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and pou l try, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, m i lk, cheese, bu t ter, olive oil, fresh f ru i t s, vegetables in any form, beans, len t i ls, chickpeas, jam s, and ce- ment may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwa i t. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Ex- ports of arms and ammun i t ion also require licenses. W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwa it Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents GCC na t iona ls are allowed to purchase local stocks up to a certain l im i t. Other non- residents are not allowed to purchase capital market securities, name ly, stocks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Yes. n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment KUWAIT 503 Yes. No. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwa i t; foreign participation in new Kuwaiti companies must be less than 49%. The participation of GCC nationals in companies established in Kuw a it may reach up to 75% of the capital, and there are no restrictions on the par- t ic ipa t ion in retail trade enterprises by non -Kuwa i ti GCC na t iona ls. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws On ly GCC na t iona ls may purchase real estate for pr iva te residence purposes of up to 3,000 square meters. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Kyrgyz som. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The exchange rate of the dollar vis-a-vis the som is the average-weighted exchange rate of accepted bids at auctions that are held once a week at the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK). Exchange rates of 24 other currencies are determined on the basis of cross-exchange rates. Licensed commercial banks participate in the auctions. In addition to the NBK, the commercial banks and the Settlement and Savings Com- pany are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted w i thout restriction. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements, and settlements may be made in any currency, including nonconvertible currencies (e.g., Russ ian rubles and Kazakh tenge). There are agreements w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. There are credit agreements with China, Pakistan, Russia, Turkey, and Uzbekistan. Yes. There are agreements with the Interstate Bank and the Central Asian Bank for Coop- eration and Development. The NBK has responsibility for managing its gold and foreign exchange reserves. The som is fu l ly convertible with no restrictions on buy ing, selling, or holding foreign currencies. The NBK is also responsible for issu ing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. Foreign trade is regulated by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and Indus t ry, wh ich issues import and export licenses when required. Juridical persons w i th foreign par t ic ipa t ion are registered w i th the state at the Ky rgyz Republic M in is t ry of Justice, in accordance w i th the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBK have pr ior i ty in purchasing at that price. If the government and the NBK do not exercise that r igh t, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 505 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts must be registered w i th the NBK, and account informa t ion must be transmitted to the tax authorities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Impor ts of armamen ts, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equ ipmen t, poisons, narcotics, works of art, an t iques, precious rare earth materials, and rare an imal and vegetable matter used in pha rmaceu t ical products are prohibited for reasons of na- t ional interest. Goods from the CIS countries can be imported du ty free. Imports from non-CIS countries are subject to a flat customs duty of 10%. The fo l low ing goods were sub- jected to a special customs fee on imports from CIS and non-CIS countries in 1996: gasoline (25%), electronic goods (20%), fu rn i tu re (10%), carpets (35%), and crystal (30%). At end-January 1997, the government converted the customs fees on gasoline, carpets, and crystal to excise fees and thus only electronic goods and fu rn i tu re remain subject to h igher customs fees. On February 26, 1997, import taxes on diesel fuel (25%) were re in troduced. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of weapons, explosives, nuclear materials, poisons, drugs, works of arts, an- tiques, precious rare earth materials, and rare an imal and vegetable matter used in pharmaceutical products require licenses for reasons of na t ional interest. W ithout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Control is exercised by the National Securities Market Commission (NKRTsB) under the President of the Kyrgyz Republic. Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities must be registered w i th the NKRTsB. Sale or issue abroad by residents Securities must be registered w i th the NKRTsB. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Currently these ins trumen ts are not regulated, given the lack of such instruments. Controls on credit operations Standards are established by the NBK for commercial banks. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents This is restricted to 15% of net aggregate capital (NAC) for insiders and a f f i l ia ted persons. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 507 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the government. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Ma in tenance of accounts abroad A f ter an account is opened, it must be registered. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Locally issued securities must be denominated in local currency. However, the use of foreign currency, or of payment documents in foreign currency, is permitted in certain instances and according to procedures established by legislation. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 15% for each currency and a total of 30% of NAC. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io invested abroad Inves tment funds are not permitted to inves t, locally or abroad, more than 10% of the ir total assets in the securities of a single issuer, or to hold more than 25% of the com- mon stock of an issuer. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1997 March 27. The Settlement and Savings Company under the NBK received a license to accept foreign currency deposits. April L The auction system was changed from a single price auction to a multiple price auction. March 28. A general agreement on customary terms for effec t ing bilateral transactions on the in terbank currency market and the state securities market, and an agreement on the establishment of a representative office were concluded w i th the Interstate Bank. April 25. A credit agreement was signed w i th Georgia. August 29. A credit agreement was signed w i th Russia. September 24. Ju r id ical persons w i th foreign participation were required to be regis- tered w i th the state at the Kyrgyz Republic M in i s t ry of Finance. Imports and import payments February 26. Impo rt taxes on diesel fuel (25%) suspended in Ju ly 1996 were reintroduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is the Lao kip. The Thai baht and the dollar circulate freely and are used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: a rate set by the commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus, and a parallel market rate. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided the spread between buy ing and selling rates remains less than 2%. In practice, however, la Banque pour le Com- merce Exterieur du Laos, the major state-owned commercial bank and the dom inant transactor in the official exchange market, sets the commercial bank exchange rate taking into account movements in the parallel market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments bu t, in principle, the central bank (CB) provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and dollars. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained w i th China, Poland, Russia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Official transactions are handled by the central bank. The M in is try of Commerce (MOC) grants import and export authorization to state trading companies, jo int ven- tures between domestic enterprises and foreign investors, cooperatives, and other public and pr iva te enterprises. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold and s i lver require CB au tho r iza t ion. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 509 Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited w i th (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) other transfers from abroad; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened w i th commercial banks within the Lao PDR; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These accounts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited w i th (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in Lao PDR; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and du ly declared upon arri- val. Nonresidents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the CB. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into k ip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts ma in- tained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of resi- dents or nonresidents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. These accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not permitted to deposit kip belonging to residents to their convertible kip accounts. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buy ing rate of the commercial bank concerned. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Margin deposits are required against letters of credit, and the rates are set by the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL) and other commercial banks. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses issued by the MOC and provincial government authorities are required for all goods. Imports may be made by any registered export-import business. These consist of state trading companies, jo in t-ven ture trade companies, and private trade companies. These companies are categorized as enterprises producing either mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multicommodity, for export- impor t, or for export promotion. Imports are classified into nine categories. Enter- prises that are producing import substitutes are allowed to import only materials for construction and electrical products and instruments; vehicles and spare parts; medi- cine, medical equipment, and chemical products for manufac tur ing; and fue l. Negative list Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of vehicles, w i th the exception of imports for foreign investment projects, international organizations, diplomats and retirees, are subject to quotas set by the government. The tar iff structure is composed of six rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inpu t s, and certain essential consumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to l u x u ry consumer goods, certain beverages, and tobacco. Special tar iff rates were removed in 1997. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly n.a. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds -Yes. No. Export licenses, wh ich are issued by the MOC and provincial government authorities, are required for all products. Quotas apply only to timber. Export duties are levied on certain products at rates ranging from 3% to 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments; however, informa t ion on amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tment is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from merchandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Capital Transactions On capital market securities On money market ins trumen ts On collective inves tment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 5 1] Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Currency The currency of Latvia is the Latvian lats. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The lats is pegged to the SDR and, since February 1994, has maintained a constant exchange rate against the SDR of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of La tv ia (BOL) quotes f ix ing rates of the lats against 28 convertible currencies da i ly. These rates are used for accounting purposes, and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes in real time buy ing and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling). The spread between the buy ing and selling rates is 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th the Baltic countries, the Russ ian Federation, and the other coun tr ies of the FSU can be made through any means, inc lud ing through a system of correspon- dent accounts. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich the BOL ma in ta ins agreements on mu tual settlement of accounts are effected in accordance w i th the terms of these agreements. Inoperative bilateral payment agreements are maintained w i th Armen ia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, the Ky rgyz Republic, L i thuan ia, Moldova, the Russ ian Federation, Tajikistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Outstanding balances from similar accounts w i th Belarus and Turkmenistan have been cleared. n.a. Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of m in is te rs and approved by pa r l iament preva il in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the au tho r i ty to issue regu la t ions governing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises li- censed by the BOL. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade A license is required. 512 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 513 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident na tu ral persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. n.a. There are v i r tua l ly no licensing requirements for imports except for reasons of health and safety. Licensing is v i r tua l ly automatic except for pyrotechnic products, arms and ammun i t ion, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The processing time for li- cense applications is no more than 10 business days, and license fees reflect process- ing costs only. The Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs) was amended on Ju ly 1, 1997, f ix ing lower basic and MFN ad valorem rates. There remain 13 specific tariffs on sugar, certain confec- tionary products, alcohol, and cigarettes. The average of the basic ad valorem tar iffs on nonagr icu l tural goods is 4.5%; the most common tariff rate is 1%. Some f inal goods are exempt from customs duties. The average basic rate on agricultural goods is 19.5%, and the average MFN rate is 15.7%. Tariffs on several products, including w ine and cigarettes, were lowered fu r ther on January 1, 1998. At end-July 1997, Latvia maintained trade and economic cooperation agreements prov id ing for MFN status w i th 22 countries: Armen ia, Australia, Azerbaijan, Be larus, Canada, Cyprus, Ch ina, Cuba, Hungary, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Repub l ic, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine (for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 LATVIA agricultural goods), the United States, Uzbek is tan, and V ie tnam. La tv ia has free-trade agreements w i th a total of 25 countries. These are the other Baltic countries, the Euro- pean Un ion, EFTA, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Repub l ic, Slovenia, and Uk ra ine (for indus t r ial goods). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Export duties are levied on ferrous waste and scrap, certain categories of wood and articles of wood, antiques, printed material, and works of art. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Nonresidents are not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies operating in the forestry sector, in lottery and gambling, and in radio and television. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents The purchase of bu i ld ings is permitted, but the purchase of land near borders and in env ironmen ta l ly protected areas is not allowed. In December 1996, the law on land pr iva t iza t ion in ru ral regions was amended, allow- ing ju r id ical persons registered in Latvia to purchase rural land when more than one- ha lf of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to citizens of Latvia or to c i t izens of countries w i th wh ich La tv ia has an agreement on promotion of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 515 investment; (2) to a group of the previous categories; or (3) it is a public joint-stock company, shares of wh ich are quoted on the stock exchange. On May 8, 1997, a law on land reform was passed w i th the same amendments as in the law on land pr iva t iza t ion in rural regions. Jur id ical persons registered in Latvia have the right to purchase land under bu i ld ings and constructions that have been acquired as a result of pr iva t iza t ion and the land necessary for the maintenance of bu i ld ings and constructions. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of cap i tal for any single foreign currency and 20% of capital for all foreign currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions Changes During 1997 July 1. The Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs) was amended, f ix ing lower basic and MFN ad valorem rates. May 8. Amendmen ts to the law on land reform in cities allow persons registered in Latvia to purchase u rban land when more than one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs to (1) the citizens of La tv ia, (2) the citizens of countries w i th wh ich La tv ia has an agreement to promote foreign inves tmen t, (3) a group of the previous categories, and (4) a pub l ic joint-stock company, quo t ing shares on the stock exchange. Imports and import payments January 1. Tar iffs on several products, inc lud ing w ine and cigarettes, were lowered. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1993. Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange rates are market determined, but the au thor i t ies may announce buy ing or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. Banks are allowed to engage in spot trans- actions in any currency except in Israeli new sheqalim. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. No. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins require a certifi- cate issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer that indicates the gold content and weight. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 517 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial ins t i tu t ions and money dealers. Such accounts cannot be held at nonresident banks or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Importers must place w i th banks a prior deposit of 15% of the va lue of the LC in the same currency as the LC. Banks must ensure that importers possess a valid import license, if required, before issuing LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for certain f in ished goods, insulated electric and tele- phone wires, and copper cables. Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports prohibited year-round include citrus f ru i t s, apples, and liquid milk. Imports prohibited dur ing a specified period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, apricots, potatoes, onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, garlic, Jew 's mallow, okra, muskmelons, pears, peaches, green almonds, grapes, green peppers, pomegranates, and green plums. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature. Ad valorem du ty rates on most products range from 2% to 20% and are applied on an MFN basis, except for certain imports from Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. Tariffs on new vehicles were revised on September 3, 1997, as follows: (1) 22% for vehicles valued at less than LL 20 m i l l ion; (2) 52% for vehicles valued between LL 20 m i l l ion and LL 60 million; and (3) 102% for vehicles valued above LL 60 million. The fol- lowing rates app ly to alcoholic beverages: beer, 35% of the value; champagne, w ine, and vermouths, 80% of the value; and arak, 50% of the value. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of arms and ammun i t ion, narcotics, and s im i lar products are prohibited. Li- censes are required for wheat and wheat derivatives to any country and for all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 5 18 LEBANON Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On money market ins t rumen ts Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Yes. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits, extending credits, or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. However, th is restriction does not apply to guarantees issued by nonresident banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions as collateral to loans in Lebanese pounds, provided that such loans are for commercial or inves tment activities in Lebanon. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Lending is limited to 70% of foreign currency deposits in balance sheets, Inves tment regulations n.a. Open fore ign exchange position limits Regardless of resident/nonresident assets or liabilities, banks may ma in ta in a t rad ing position (total open position less total s truc tural position) in foreign currency of up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 519 5% of the core capital of banks, and a global position (total trading position, short or long) of up to 40% of core capital. Structural positions are long-term positions repre- senting foreign assets in foreign currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The law prohibits fiduciary deposits of doub tful origin. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments August 16. The tariff rate on tobacco was increased to 42% from 20%. September 3. Tariff rates on new vehicles were revised. October 5. A m in imum tariff rate of 2% for all imports was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Lesotho loti. The South Afr ican rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The loti is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, however, is not common in Lesotho. Off ic ial cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Lesotho is part of the CMA. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA countries w i th all those outside the CMA may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency. Payments w i th in the CMA are unrestricted and unrecorded except for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations w i th countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those applied by South Africa and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and dele- gates to commercial banks the au thor i ty to approve certain types of current payments up to established limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise based on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Indus try. Licenses for f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions accepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Only authorized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may hold gold. Controls on external trade Exports of gold from the CMA are proh ib i ted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exports of currency from the CMA are prohibited. 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 521 Foreign currency Exports of foreign currency from the CM A by residents are prohibited; visitors may reexport the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the coun try. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons N a t u r al persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted App roval required Resident Accounts Banks may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad, n.a. Yes. These accounts are perm i t ted, but approval is required. Only banks may hold these accounts, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Loti accounts of nonresidents are divided into nonresident accounts and emigrant blocked accounts. Yes. n.a. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Convertible in to foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Funds in emigrant blocked loti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an em igran t's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a fam i ly un it a year. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ irement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Payments are not no rma l ly allowed before the date of sh ipment or dispatch, except w i th the prior approval or special au thor iza t ion from the CBL. Authorized dealers can perm i t, w i thout the CBL's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex- factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal practice in the trade concerned. No. Lesotho is a member of the SACU, and all imports, except certain food imports, origi- na t ing in any coun try of the SACU are unrestricted. Imports from countries outside the SACU are u sua l ly licensed in conform i ty w i th the import regulations of the SACU. Lesotho reserves the r ight to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and en t i t le the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make paymen ts for impor ts from outside the SACU. W i th certain exceptions, impor ts from outside the SACU must conform to a nega t ive l ist and be licensed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 LESOTHO Licenses w i th quotas Certain food imports from w i th in the SACU are subject to import licensing. Import taxes and/or tariffs Lesotho applies the external customs tariffs of the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in six months of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export credit scheme is in effect, invo lv ing credit guarantees, and pre- and postshipment credits. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; th is requirement, in practice, is l im i ted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped w i thout license to or through South Africa. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest paymen ts Quantitative limits Emigrants are allowed to transfer, through normal bank ing channels, up to M 300,000 of earnings on blocked assets. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Prof i t /d iv idends These transfers are not restricted, provided the funds were not obtained through ex- cessive use of local borrowing facilities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits There is a l im it of M 60,000 a year for adults and M 20,000 for children under 12 years of age, at an average da i ly rate of up to M 2,000 for the duration of the v is i t. The basic annual exchange allowance for travel to neighboring countries —Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ma law i, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe —is M 20,000 an adult and M 5,000 a child under 12 years of age, at an average daily rate of up to M 1,000 for the dura t ion of the visit. Emigrant allowances are up to M 200,000 a fam i ly or up to M 100,000 a person. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits The l im i ts are M 4,000 a month for a single student or M 8,000 a mon th for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not s tudy ing. Indicative limits/bona fide test n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 523 Consu l t ing / legal fees Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Prior approval The l im it for professional fees is M 10,000, and the l im it for technical services is M 50,000. Prior app roval is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered w i th in seven days of the date of accrual, unless an ex- emption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior approval is requ ired. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Quan t i ta t ive l im i ts exist. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Export credits are ava i lab le for up to six mon ths; in certain circumstances, the ma tu r- ity can be extended by six mon ths. Longer-term credits require exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits requ ire exchange control approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment These credits require prior approval. However, nonresident, who l ly owned subs id iar- ies may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not d isrupt the balance of paymen ts and to ensure that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of p reva i l ing in te rna t ional rates. n.a. The ru l ings on app l ica t ions for inwa rd and ou tward capital transfers may depend on whe ther the app l icant is a temporary resident foreign na t iona l, a nonresident, or a resident. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 LESOTHO Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct investment Outward direct inves tment is prohibited. Inward capital transfers should be properly documented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior approval is required, Ma in tenance of accounts abroad n.a. Lend ing to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers may lend up to M 20,000, provided that the total available to the borrower from any source does not exceed this amount. Facilities in excess of such an amount need prior approval. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange pos i t ion limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian dollar. There are two Liberian dollar notes, Liberty notes and J.J. Roberts notes. A l though o f f ic ia l ly at par, the Liberty notes and J.J. Roberts notes circulate in different parts of the country and trade at different val- ues to the U.S. dollar. The Liberty notes are more w ide ly accepted, inc lud ing in Mon- rovia, the capital c i ty. The U.S. dollar is also legal tender. Wh i le there is an off ic ial exchange rate, it is l im i ted to compliance w i th reserve re- quirements imposed by the central bank. The parallel exchange rate now applies to all other transactions, inc lud ing government revenue and expend i ture. The Liberian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at L ib$l per US$1. The U.S. do l lar trades at a substantial p rem ium in parallel market transactions, and th is market- determined rate was sanctioned for off ic ial transactions w i th the passage of an in te r im budget in October 1997. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies, including the U.S. dollar, at market-determined exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Import du t ies and custom fees are payable in U.S. dollars, and exporters must pay export taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive paymen ts from fore ign guests in foreign exchange. Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts n.a. n.a. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears O f f ic ial P r iva te Export- and impor t- l icens ing regulations are administered by the M in is try of Com- merce and Indus t ry. n .a. Yes. n.a. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 LIBERIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade n.a. Controls on ex ternal trade Impor ts and exports of gold in any fo rm are subject to licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued free ly, but export licenses are granted res tr ic t ive ly. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts n.a. n .a. Imports and Import Payments No. No. n.a. Presh ipment inspection is required to ascertain the coun try of or ig in, the qu a l i ty, the quan t i ty, and the va lue of all goods to be shipped. Both f in al and intermediate goods are subject to inspec t ion, except for impor ts w i th an f.o.b. va lue of less than US$3,000. n.a. n.a. n .a. There is no general system of import control, but the impor ta t ion of some items, in- c lud ing safety matches, electrode we ld ing rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Licensing requirements are l ibera l ly en- forced. Imports of arms, ammun i t ion, and explosives require prior licenses. In addi- t ion, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to off ic ial controls. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts P resh ipment inspec t ion Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Po s i t ive l i st Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas n.a. n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs The nom inal average ta r i ff rate is 31 %. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 527 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Yes. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Licenses are generally issued freely, inc lud ing those for agr icu l tural products, to as- sure certification of qua l i ty and origin. Export licenses are required for elephant tusks and ivo ry; wild animals; cement; agri- cu l tural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar; and certain other items, such as arms, ammun i t ion, and explosives. n.a. An export tax of 5% is imposed on the f.o.b. value of rubber and other agr icu l tural produce, payable in U.S. dollars. An export tax of 15% is levied on diamonds. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement October 30. The parallel exchange rate was applied for all transactions. This rate is market determined. Exports and export proceeds October 27. The surrender requirement was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Libya is the Libyan dinar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax The Libyan dinar is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1 per SDR 2.80. Marg ins of up to 47% are allowed around th is fixed relationship, and the d inar has been depreci- ated to the max imum extent permitted w i th in those margins to LD 1 per SDR 1.905. Fees are levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of f inanc ing the Great Man-Made R iver Project. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Israel are prohibited. Settlements w i th other countries are made in convertible currencies. An agreement is maintained w i th Malta; ou ts tand ing balances are settled in conver t i- ble currencies every 90 days. n.a. The Central Bank of L ibya (CBL) administers exchange control and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, wh ich is executed by the Secretariat of P lann ing, the Economy, and Trade (SOPET). International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other than bars. The CBL impor ts processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manu fac tu re at prices announced from t ime to time. The gold must be processed before it may be sold to the pub l ic. Unworked gold is subject to an impo rt du ty of 15%. Travelers may not take out Libyan currency. 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 529 Foreign currency Notes up to the equivalent of LD 300 may be taken out w i th in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance. Additional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by v is i t ing tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Ind iv idual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad w i thout restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to f inance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export produc t ion. Approval of the CBL is required to open these accounts. Held abroad n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents who are g a in fu l ly employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts and may credit them with the ir legitimate earnings. All other credits to non- resident accounts require the prior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors unde r tak ing contracts in their own names must be kept w i th an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of the ir contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these ac- counts are subject to the prior approval of the CBL after submission of the prescribed evidence, bu t, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount speci- fied in the contract. Approval is required to open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. W i th the approval of the CBL, funds in blocked accounts (w i th certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of v i s i ts by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his or her country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of ha rdsh ip. When the funds have been in a blocked account for f ive years, they qua l- i f y, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in f u ll to the owner in his or her coun- try of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments. Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Authorized banks may not open an LC w i thout an advance impo rt deposit equal to at least 20% of the va lue of the impo r t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n.a. Before an LC is established, a marine insurance policy from a local insurance com- pany must be submitted. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks fo l low ing central bank approval, provided that a f i rm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the SOPET. Imports of state-owned enterprises do not require licenses if they are authorized w i t h in the annual commodity budget; other imports are subject to licensing. Resident f i rms undertaking development projects may import needed items not included in the annual commodity budget if the items are not available locally. Imports by nonresidents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. W i th the exception of strategic goods (i.e., nine essential food items, medicines, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) retained by pub l ic corporations, all other goods may be imported by either pub l ic or private entities w i th in the provisions of the annual commodity budget. Imports of mineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vege- tables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and fu rs are prohibited. n.a. n.a. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to deal directly w i th producers abroad and not through intermediaries. Imports are subject to customs duties and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the ap- plicable customs duties. All products from Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, provided the domestic value added is at least 40%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months of sh ipmen t. Surrender requirements Exporters are allowed to retain up to 40% of earnings. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses All exports require the opening of LCs. n.a. n.a. n.a. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register w i th the Export Promotion Council and supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on their exports. Exports of non monetary gold (other than for processing abroad), scrap metals, eggs, chicken, f ish, olive oil, paint, tires, steel, and tractors are prohibited. Exports or reexports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 531 W i thout quotas W i th quotas toma to paste, and macaron i, wh i ch are subs id ized commod i t ies, are proh ib i ted. All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments P ro f i t /d iv idends Payments for inv is ib les related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other pay- men ts for inv is ib les, as well as paymen ts in excess of the approval au thor i ty delegated to the banks, require the pr ior approval of the CBL. In fo rma t ion is not available on quan t i ta t ive and indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests for paymen ts for p ro f i ts and d iv idends, trave l, medical costs, study abroad costs, sub- scription and membe rsh ip fees, consu l t ing and legal fees, pensions, and f am i ly ma in- tenance and a l imony. Profits generated by foreign cap i tal invested in projects deemed to con tr ibu te to the economic development of the coun try may be transferred freely to the coun try of ori- g in, provided that the pa id -up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 % of the shares are held by foreign na t iona ls. Prior approval Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. n .a. Payments for travel Foreign exchange allocations for travel were suspended in 1992. Indicative limits/bona fide test n .a. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Nonresidents employed by the state, by state-owned enterprises, and by foreign com- panies may rem it (1) up to 50% of the ir net salaries each mon th if the ir contracts do not spec ify that lodging, board, or both w i ll be made ava i lab le free of charge by the employer; or (2) up to 75% of the ir net salaries if the ir contracts specify that the em- ployer w i ll provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are ex- empt from these regu la t ions. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Credit card use abroad Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad of these in s t rum en ts by residents requires approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in indus tr ial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a m inor i ty ownersh ip basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, in troduc t ion of the latest technology, and cooperation w i th fore ign f i rms in exporting the su rp lus production. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to con tr ibu te to the economic develop- ment of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the pa id-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign A f fa i rs and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Currency The currency of Lithuania is the Lithuanian litas. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations The litas is pegged to the dollar at LTL 4 per dollar since April 1994, when the cur- rency board arrangement was established. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements No. Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These ac- counts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained w i th the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a bank ing law delegating to the BOL the au thor i ty to issue regulations gov- erning foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be ef- fected through authorized banks licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as w i th residents and nonresidents of L i thuan ia; the BOL may l im it the types of transactions that can be conducted on a case-by-case basis. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 LITHUANIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Ju r id ical persons need the perm iss ion of the BOL to hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Approval is required if the legislation of the other coun try requires approva l. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for hea l th and national security reasons and as noted below. Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quan t i ta t ive restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect L i thuan ia 's cu l tu r al heritage. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco can be imported only by traders registered w i th the government, but import quan t i t ies are unrestricted. A three-tier tar iff structure exists consisting of (1) a "conventional" rate applied to countries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries w i th wh ich L i thuan ia has a foreign trade agreement; and (3) an "autonomous" rate that is u su a l ly 5% higher than the MFN rate and is applied to all other countries. Imports entering under a majority of tar iff lines are duty-free; and most other tariff lines carry du ty rates of 20% or less; however, rates on agr icu l tural products range as h igh as 87%. Some non-ad valorem du ty rates remain in effect. A tax at the un i fo rm rate of 0.01 % is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole purpose of collecting statistical in fo rma t ion on trade. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. There are license requirements governing trade in strategic goods and technology. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 535 W i thout quo tas W i th quo tas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Taxes are applied on exports of raw hides, cer ta in types of logs, glands and other or- gans for the rapeu t ic purposes or for use in the prepara t ion of pha rmaceu t ical products, and fea thers. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. There are no res t r ic t ions, except in fields that are subject to p roh ib i t ion under the Law on Foreign Cap i tal Inves tmen ts: state defense, production and sale of narcotic sub- stances, and lottery transac t ions. The law perm i ts the state to sell shares to nonresi- dents, guarantees nond isc r im ina to ry na t ional trea tment to foreign inves tors, and protects inves tmen ts aga inst na t iona l iza t ion and expropr ia t ion. The purchase of state- owned enterprises is subject to au thor iza t ion from the Central P r iva t iza t ion Commit- tee. One of the ma in cond i t ions in th is process is that the company must rema in en- gaged in the same type of bus iness for at least one year under the new owne rsh ip. Wh i le f i rms w i th 100% foreign capital own e r sh ip are allowed to operate in L i t h u a n i a, the gove rnment reserves the r ight to establish l im i ts on foreign inve s tment in L i thua- n i an en terpr ises. In j o i nt ven tures in the t ranspo r ta t ion and commun ica t ion sectors, the domestic par tner is required to hold the ma jo r i ty of shares. Who l ly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco indus t r ies are p roh ib i ted. Enterprises w i th fo re ign inv e s tm ent mu st be insu red by L i t h u a n i an insu rance companies, even if the company re ta ins other insu rance services outside L i t h u a n i a. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The owne r sh ip of land by nonres iden ts in L i thu an ia is p roh ib i ted, but lease contracts w i th l im i ts up to two hectares of land in V i l n i us and ten hectares ou ts ide the cap i tal are pe rm i t ted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereaf ter. In the near f u t u r e, according to EU requ i remen t s, non res iden ts of certain foreign coun t r ies w i ll be al- lowed to pu rchase land. Sale locally by nonres iden ts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 LITHUANIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Resident banks or other credit institutions must inform the BOL about their accounts w i th foreign banks. Locally issued securities must be denominated in the national currency. Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 30% of their capital, and the open posi- tion in ind iv idual currencies may not exceed 20% of the banks' capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the currencies are at par. Other legal tender The Belgian franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Cooperative arrangement Luxembourg participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg ma in ta in spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants w i th in marg ins of 15% above or below the cross-rates derived from the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. n.a. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. No. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically He ld abroad Luxembourg applies exchange restrictions against Iraq. Yes. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 LUXEMBOURG Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign cu r rency Yes. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts These are accounts affected by in te rna t ional security restrictions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Pos i t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for impor ts may be made freely. Ind iv idual licenses are required for certain specified impor ts from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the EU), inc lud ing many textile and steel products, d iamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from Ch ina. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along w i th EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA and also applies a system of m i n im um import prices to foreign steel product quotas on a number of steel products from Russia and Ukra ine, and quotas on a number of products from Ch ina (toys, shoes, ceramic, porcelain, and glassware). On Janua ry 1, 1997, the quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhs tan was e l im ina ted. Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other ag r icu l tu ral and livestock products from non-EU countries. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Export licenses are required only for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, and for diamonds and for some iron and steel products. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG 539 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. n.a. Applicable to insurance undertakings only. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 Payments for imports January 1. Authorization for imports of certain preserved foodstuffs (tuna, bonito, and sardines) was abolished. January 1. The quota on imports of steel products from Kazakhstan was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Macedonian denar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Managed floating The exchange market operates at two levels —wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia (NBRM)) and retail (households). The NBRM participates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the deutsche mark at a level that would meet balance of payments objectives. Buy ing and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the NBRM, wh ich calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the NBRM publishes rates for 22 currencies. The NBRM deals at the published midpoint rates plus or mi- nus a margin of 0.3%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, and natural persons. Foreign exchange bureaus may hold foreign exchange positions equivalent to 100% of the net foreign exchange purchases in the preceding 10 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations The NBRM may conclude forward foreign exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The parliament has the authority to legislate laws govern ing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made through govern- ment regulations. The NBRM is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. The M in i s t ry of Finance is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate in te rna t iona l ly. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been dele- gated to the par t ic ipan ts in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The M in is t ry of Foreign Relations administers the Commercial Companies Act. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Gold producers mu st report a ll produc t ion ( in c lud ing q u a l i t y) and q u a n t i ty sold. Pro- cessors are also requ ired to report all quan t i t ies bought and processed. 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 541 Controls on external trade The impor ta t ion and exportation of gold require NBRM approval. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad A max imum of MDen 5,000 in denominations of 100-, 50-, 20-, and 10-denar banknotes may be exported. Up to DM 1,000 may be exported for private domestic travelers, and for business travelers up to the amount stated on the bank order form. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount declared upon arr ival in the coun try. Same l im i ts as in exportation app ly. Foreign travelers must declare foreign currency over DM 300. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange deposits made after April 26, 1991, are freely disposable, i.e., they can be w i thd rawn in foreign currency or converted into denars. Yes. Enterprises w i th foreign operations may hold these accounts, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports These accounts may be credited freely w i th foreign exchange and debited for pay- ments abroad or for conversion into denars. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. A contract, invo ice, or customs declaration shou ld be submitted to the commercial bank effec t ing the paymen t. Generally, payments for imports are permitted after the impor ta t ion of goods. On February 28, 1997, the NBRM changed the regulation for paymen ts of impor ts in advance, a l low ing on ly imports of equ ipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, and goods financed by foreign loans to be paid in advance. Advance paymen ts for raw materials were also permitted effective Ju ly 24, 1997. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Impor ts of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing requ iremen ts for security or pub l ic health reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties on most items range up to 35%; rates on raw materials range from zero to 8%; machinery and equipment, from 5% to 20%; consumer goods, from 15% to 35%; and agricultural goods, from 20% to 60%. The number of bands were reduced to seven and the average rate to about 15%. There is also a 1% documentation fee. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds from transactions that are not based on commodity credits have to be transferred by the exporters into the country w i t h in 90 days from the day the expor- tation was made. Exporters must sell the ir proceeds to the foreign exchange market w i t h in four bus iness days of t rans fe r r ing them into the coun t ry, use the proceeds for paymen ts abroad, or deposit them in banks for a period of up to 90 days, af ter wh i ch they must sell the ir proceeds in the foreign exchange market. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Generally, exports are liberal. However, in some exceptional cases, the export of cer- ta in goods requires a license from the appropriate au thor i t ies. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts, except for pensions, for wh ich prior approval is required. Gamb l ing is not permitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les are subject to the same regulations as those app l icab le to merchandise exports. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Outward portfolio inves tment by resident na tu ral and ju r id ical persons is not perm i t- ted. There are no regulations on inward portfolio inves tmen t. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents According to the Commercial Companies Act, nonresidents may acquire shares in domestic companies on the same terms as residents, provided that they obtain approval from the M in is try of Foreign A f fa i rs, if the ma jor i ty of shares are in ques- tion; otherwise, they shou ld on ly register the inve s tmen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 543 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents According to the Securities Act, nonresidents may issue securities in the former Yugos lav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of a reciprocity and approval of the Commission on Securities. According to the Foreign Trade Act, only foreign direct inves tmen ts are perm i t ted by the M in is t ry of Foreign A f fa i r s. The transfer of foreign exchange requires the app roval o f t h e N B R M. Sale or issue abroad by residents There is no specific regulation on th is measure. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no specific regu la t ion on th is measure. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same conditions apply as for shares of a par t ic ipa tory na ture. Purchase abroad by residents Same cond i t ions app ly as for shares of a par t ic ipa tory na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents There is no specific regu la t ion on th is measure. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no specific regu la t ion on th is measure. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same conditions apply as for shares of a participatory nature. Purchase abroad by residents Same conditions apply as for shares of a participatory na ture. Sale or issue abroad by residents There is no specific regu la t ion on th is measure. On collective inves tment securities There are no regulations on collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There are no regu la t ions on der iva t ives. Short-term commercial banks' credit lines w i th ma tu r i ty exceeding 90 days should be registered. By residents to nonresidents Credits for the export of goods and services exceeding 90 days should be registered. To residents from nonresidents Credits for the import of goods for consumption are not permitted. Other credits ex- ceeding 180 days should be registered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits are permitted only if export of goods and services is promoted. To residents from nonresidents Private f inanc ial credits are permitted only for export-oriented projects. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Only commercial banks may effect these transactions, wh ich should be registered w i th the NBRM. Investments require approval from and registration w i th the M in is try of Foreign A f fa i rs. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing f i rms, establish the ir own f i rms, or es- tablish jo int ventures except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equ ipment not produced domestically by jo in t -v en tu re f i rms are exempt from customs du t ies if the foreign share in the inves tment is at least 20%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment All foreign investment registered w i th the M in is try of Foreign Affa irs is protected from na t iona l iza t ion. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. According to the Foreign Credit Relations Act, na tural persons are not permitted to engage in credit relations. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Inheritances may be transferred on the basis of an agreement of reciprocity w i th the respective country. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange This lending is not permitted. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Nonresident deposits in denars are subject to requirements, but foreign exchange de- posits are not. Credit controls Credit controls apply only to domestic currency credits. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Nonresident deposits in denars are subject to requirements, but foreign exchange de- posits are not. Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Imports and import payments February 28. Advance payments for raw materials were abolished. Changes During 1997 February 28. The NBRM changed the regulation for payment of imports in advance, allowing only imports of equipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, and goods financed by foreign loans to be paid in advance. July 24. Advance paymen ts for raw materials were reintroduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 18, 1996. Currency The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined freely in the off ic ial interbank market. The French franc is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. No. No. There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Exporters can buy foreign currency 120 days prior to settlement from their bank. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative No. n.a. There is an arrangement w i th Maur i t ius. Barter agreements and open accounts Regulations prohibit barter trade. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Un it of the General Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Mada- gascar. Approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, except for capital operations, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Off ic ial Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n .a. Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold w i th in the country from holders of valid gold m in ing titles, from authorized 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 MADAGASCAR Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically holders of gold w a sh ing r igh t s, from the Gold Board, and from agencies for approved collectors. Imports and exports of gold require prior au thor iza t ion from the M in is t ry of Com- merce after review by the Directorate of Energy and M ines. Exempt from t h is re- quirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are au thor ized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewe l ry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of num isma t ic items a person. Imports of gold, whe ther licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a va l id gold m in ing t i t le or a gold wash ing permit or r igh ts thereto are free to sell the gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy au tho r i t ie s, represented by the CBM or its agents, have f irst r igh ts to purchase gold produced in the coun t ry. The Gold Board and agencies au thor ized by the M in i s t ry of M i n i ng may export gold in all its fo rms. Jewelers, go ldsm i ths, and p r iva te sector profess iona ls who use gold may export it on ly in worked fo rm, subject to the decision of the M in is ter of M in ing. Resident and non res ident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Ma lagasy bankno tes. Residents and nonresident trave lers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a dec lara t ion is required if the amount is more than the equ iva lent of F 50,000. Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may b r ing in up to FMG 25,000. Resident and nonres ident travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is equal to F 50,000 or more. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may open foreign currency accounts w i th local banks. Only transfers from abroad or from ano ther foreign currency account, as well as foreign banknotes or trave ler's and bank checks may be deposited in these accounts w i thout jus t i f ica t ion. These accounts may be free ly debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a fore ign account in Madagas- car or abroad. Conversion in to foreign bankno tes is a l lowed on ly w i t h in the l im i ts s t ipu la ted under the app l icab le foreign exchange control regu la t ion. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Non res iden ts are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. T ransac t ions between residents and enterprises in the free trade zone are conducted e i ther th rough the en terpr ises' special accounts in Ma lagasy francs or th rough the ir fore ign accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 547 Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements The requirement applies to all imports. Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. All exports are subject to cash on delivery (COD) or settlement w i th delivery of documents except for all free deliveries. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There is a shortlist of imports subject to adm in is tra t ive control primarily for health and security reasons. Positive list Negative l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import tar iffs range from 10% to 30%. Imports are also subject to customs duties ranging up to 20%, although the sum of the import tariff and customs du ty may not exceed 30% for any item. Some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%. A pretax of 3% to 5%, deductible from the corporate tax, is paid on all imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Petroleum products are imported by a state monopoly. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds should be repatriated w i t h in 120 days of the sh ipment date. No. No. All exports require either a COD or settlement against delivery of documents, exclud- ing free deliveries. n.a. The requirement applies for exports exceeding FMG 1 m i l l ion. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 MADAGASCAR Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of the due date. Surrender requirements No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries, and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). There are no capital market regulations, due to the absence of a capital market. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securi- ties whose issuing or offer ing for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments On collective inves tment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents These operations currently do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export pref inanc ing operations are permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Borrowing abroad by na tural or ju r id ical persons, whe ther pub l ic or private, requires prior authorization from the MOF, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit ins t i tu t ions w i th special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amor- tization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Yes. n.a. Investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior au thor iza t ion from the MOF. Inves tmen ts, inc lud ing those made by companies in Madagascar that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted w i th in Madagascar w i thout authorization or investment approval, according to Law 96-015 of August 13, 1996. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The total or par t ial liquidation of these inves tmen ts, whe ther Ma lagasy inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 549 from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated w i th the prior authoriza- tion of the MOF. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prohibited, unless otherwise approved by the MOF. Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale locally by nonresidents The transfer of proceeds of sales is subject to prior authorization by the MOF. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Controls are implemented through bank supervision. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Exports and export proceeds May 1. Export tax on van i l la was abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 13. Payment of air transport in domestic currency by all persons traveling to Madagascar was authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 3 J, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Currency The currency of Ma lawi is the Ma lawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing The exchange rate of the Ma lawi kwacha is managed in a flexible manner, w i th in ter- vention policy limited to smoothing out f luc tua t ions of the rate and w i th consideration for in terna t ional reserve targets. Exchange market participants are free to quote their own central rate, w i th the condition that the marg in between the buy ing and selling rates should not exceed 2%. The Reserve Bank of Ma lawi (RBM) quotes reference rates, which are distributed to authorized dealer banks (ADBs). Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions w i th the general pub l ic on the basis of exchange rates negotiated w i th their clients. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Ma lawi or in Ma lawi kwacha through nonresident accounts. Ma lawi participates in the COMESA Clearing House Arrangemen t. Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the au thor i ty of the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell only gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes. Only the monetary authorities can hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Only the monetary authorities can conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in consultation with the MOF; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for impor ts by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. Up to MK 3,000 may be exported. 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly MALAWI 551 Approval for exports is granted subject to verification of need. Up to MK 3,000 may be imported. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts (FCDAs). Balances in FCDAs may be used to make foreign pay- ments and transfers, provided exchange control regulations are satisfied. Approval is required. He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. These accounts may be credited w i th proceeds of sales of any convertible currency, w i th authorized payments in Ma lawi kwacha from abroad, and w i th transfers from other nonresident accounts. These accounts may also be debited to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonresident accounts, and make payments to account holders temporarily residing in Ma law i. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts do not require prior au thor iza t ion, and authorization is normally given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. Interest earned on balances may be transferred to the account holder's country of residence. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Advance import deposits Importers are free to choose any method of paymen t, and imports may be paid for in Malawi kwacha to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible cur- rency. When imports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must subm i t, to an ADB, applications for foreign exchange. Such applications must be ac- companied by relevant importation and customs documents. Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Importers are encouraged to use other modes of payment, e.g., LCs. Off ic ial regulations do not require these deposits; however, commercial banks do so as a banking practice and depending on the mode of payment (e.g., LCs). ADBs may require counterpart deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 MALAWI Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection A clean report of f ind ings certificate is required. All imports in to Ma lawi in the amount of or above $2,000 or its equ iva lent are subject to preshipment inspection. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of certain agricultural products and used clothing, fertilizers, switchblade knives, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, w i ld animals, live f i sh, kitchen and table salt, and copyrighted articles require specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are u sua l ly issued w i th in one week of applications and are normally va l id for six months. Yes. Customs ta r i f fs are ad valorem and range from zero to 45% of c.i.f. va lue w i th a weighted average of about 15%. Tariffs on textiles are 35% and the effective max i- mum rate is 40% on most items. Government imports are exempt from customs ta r i f fs. Impor ts are also subject to a sur tax rang ing up to 20%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses W i t h o ut quotas Export taxes ADBs are required to convert 60% of foreign exchange received from exports imme- diately upon receipt at the preva i l ing buy ing exchange rate, and credit the Ma lawi kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The rema in ing 40% may be credited to the exporter's foreign currency account. There are no restrictions on the t ime period over wh ich such balances may be held. This 60% conversion is also applied to do l lar proceeds from the tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the con- version is 100% un t il the seller has fu l ly repaid his overdraft w i th his bankers. Yes. Exporters are required to complete Form CD Is (Exports from Ma law i ). Yes. Yes. A cess of 8% is levied on the trad i t ional export crops of tobacco, tea, coffee, and sugar. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval ADBs are authorized to provide foreign exchange w i thout reference to the exchange control authorities for payments in respect of f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in is tra t ive expenses, commissions, s tudy ing abroad, subscr ip t ion and membe rsh ip fees, con su l t ing and legal fees, pensions, and on interest, transfers of gamb l ing and prize earnings. These transfers are not restricted, provided the inves tment is approved and registered by the RBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 553 Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test These transfers are not restricted, provided the foreign loan is approved and registered by the RBM. The l im i ts are $3,000 a t r ip for tour ist trave l, and $5,000 a t r ip for business trave l. Foreign exchange in excess of these l im i ts is granted upon proof of need. Subsequent issues of foreign exchange to the same ind iv idu al w i th respect to p r iva te or business travel is granted upon proof of previous trave l. Medical costs Quantitative limits The l im it is $4,000 a t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign exchange in excess of th is l im it is granted upon proof of need. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Family ma in tenance /a l imony The l im it is two - th i rds of current net earnings. Quantitative limits ADBs may release up to $1,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts S ix ty percent of total proceeds may be converted into local currency upon receipt, and the balance may be held in FCDAs. Restrictions on use of funds Funds can on ly be used in accordance w i th exchange control regulations. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inwa rd transfers of non-debt-creating cap i tal are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled m a in ly for residents. Capital Transactions On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase abroad by residents On co l lec t ive inv e s tm ent securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by res iden ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 MALAWI Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, wh ich is norma l ly granted provided that the terms of repaymen t, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Repa tr ia t ion of inves tmen ts is permitted if the inves tment is approved and registered by the RBM. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, wh ich is norma l ly granted provided that the terms of repayment, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Yes. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) ADBs are guided by the ir lending policies. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Inve s tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 555 Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Exchange arrangement December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Ma lawi was reclassified from an independent to a managed f loa t ing arrangement. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Currency The currency of Ma lays ia is the Ma lays ian r ingg i t. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Forward exchange market The Ma lays ian ringgit is determined by supply and demand. The Bank Negara Malay- sia (BNM) intervenes only to ma in ta in orderly market conditions and to avoid exces- sive f luc tua t ions in the va lue of the ringgit. The BNM also monitors the exchange rate against a weighted basket of currencies of Ma lays ia 's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote ex- change rates, whe ther spot or forward, to all customers for all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and f inanc ial trans- actions. For f inanc ial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transac- t ions, forward cover for impo r ts is provided for up to 12 mon ths from the intended date of impor t, wh i le for export purposes, the forward cover is up to six mon ths from the export date. On August 4, 1997, the BNM imposed controls requiring banks to l im it ou ts tand ing noncommercial-related r ingg it offer side swap transactions (i.e., forward order/spot purchases of r ingg it by foreign customers) to $2 m i l l ion a foreign customer. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Reg ional arrangements C lear ing agreements Bar ter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special ru les app ly to settlements w i th Israel and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). There are six arrangements. There are 16 arrangements. Ma lays ia is a member of the ASEAN. Yes. n .a. The Con tro l ler of Foreign Exchange (COFE), who is also the Governor of the BNM, adm in is te rs exchange control. On J u ne 23, 1993, Ma lay s ia no t i f ied the IMF that it had imposed cer ta in res tr ic t ions on paymen ts and t rans fe rs for current in te rna t ional transac t ions w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 557 Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically He ld abroad There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes in a t rave le r 's immed ia te possession. The exportation of r ingg it currency by any other means requires pr ior approval from the COFE. Expor ta t ion of foreign cu r rency notes requires pr ior approva l. No l im i ta t ion is imposed on a trave ler's importation of currency notes. The impo r ta- tion of r ingg it banknotes by other than commercial banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the COFE. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of the ir export proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th designated banks in Malaysia up to $10 m i l l ion, depending on export proceeds. Th ir ty-f ive designated banks are permitted to offer foreign currency ac- counts to residents. All other domestic banks must obtain perm iss ion f rom the COFE before offering foreign currency accounts to residents. These accounts may be opened only w i th designated banks. Residents w i th no domestic borrow ing are allowed to open foreign cu r rency accoun ts w i th an overseas b ranch of Ma lays ian -owned banks. Residents w i th domestic borrow- ing require pr ior app roval to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. All commerc ial and merchant banks are allowed to open these accounts. Nonres ident r ingg it accounts in Ma lay s ia are designated ex ternal accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely perm i t ted, subject on ly to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceeding RM 100,000, if residents make such payments. Proceeds f rom the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts and the balances may be transferred to any other resident or nonres ident account or converted in to any currency, except those of Israel and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). All debits and credits to the latter accounts require prior approva l. Commercial banks are required to place domestic currency funds of foreign bank ing in s t i tu t ions held in non- in teres t- bearing vostro accounts w i th the BNM. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency Yes. Blocked accounts All deb i ts and credits to the accounts of residents of Israel and the Federal R epub l ic of Yugo s l av ia (Serbia/Montenegro) requ i re p r ior approva l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 MALAYSIA Foreign exchange budget Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l i st Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments There is no res tr ic t ion on the purchase of foreign exchange from banks to pay for impor ts. The au tho r i ty for import control rests w i th the Royal Cus toms and Excise Depa r tment of the Federal M i n i s t ry of Finance. Impo rt l icens ing th roughout Ma lay s ia is adm in i s- tered da i ly by the M i n i s t ry of In te rna t ional Trade and Indu s t ry (MITI) together w i th o ther specified au tho r i t ies, such as the M i n i s t ry of Pr imary Indu s t r i e s, the Ma lay s ian Timber Board, and the Ve te r ina ry Depar tmen t, on beha lf of the Royal Cus toms and Excise Depar tmen t. n.a. Impo r ts from Israel and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugo s l av ia (Serbia/Montenegro) requ i re licenses. Finished motor veh ic le impo r ts are subject to nonau toma t ic impo rt l icens ing, wh ich is adm in is tered by the MITI. The movement of l ive an ima ls between pen in su lar Ma lays ia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a pe rm it issued by the Veteri- nary Depar tmen t. Impor ts of meat, bones, hides, hooves, horns, and offal of any an i- mal or any portion of an an imal from all countries requ ire an impo rt license. Impo r ts of pr ima tes, whe ther dead or a l ive, requ ire an import license, subject to approval f rom the Depar tment of W i l d l i fe and Na t ional Parks. Res tr ic t ions on impor ts from Ha i ti were l i f ted on March 5, 1998. n .a. Certain impo r ts are subject to qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions, wh ich are reviewed periodi- ca l ly, to protect local indu s t r ies temporar i ly when requ ired. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom i c i l i a t ion P re sh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than six mon ths after the date of expor ta t ion. Exporters are allowed to re ta in th e ir export proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th designated banks up to $10 m i l l i o n, depend ing on th e ir export proceeds. Exports of rubber from p en in su l ar Ma lay s ia require a certificate issued by the Ma lay- sian Rubber Exchange and L icens ing Board. Res tr ic t ions on exports to Ha i ti were l i f ted on March 5, 1998. n .a. n.a. n .a. n.a. Exports to Israel and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugo s lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) requ ire export l icens ing from the MITI. Exports of logs are restricted and require l icens ing f rom the Ma lays ian Timber Indus t r ies Board. Exports of pe tro leum and pe tro leum products, arms and related ma ter ia ls, m i l i t a ry veh ic les and equ ipmen t, and police equ ipment to Ha i ti are proh ib i ted. Exports of roof ing t i les, bricks, m ine ra ls, rice and paddy in any fo rm, m i lk and specified m i lk products, tex t i les, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Cus toms (P roh ib i t ion of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the Cus toms Act (1967) are subject to perm i ts issued by the MITI. W i t h o ut quo tas n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 559 W i th quotas Export taxes n.a. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Ma lays ian products. The pr imary incentives inc lude a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas pro- motion, export credit re f inanc ing, and du ty drawbacks. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv i s ib les to all other countries other than Israel and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenego) may be made w i thout restriction. Remittances to nonresidents of prof i ts on all bona fide inves tmen ts are permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amoun ts of RM 100,000 and above. Rem i t- tances of interest paymen ts do not require prior approval as long as such paymen ts are in accordance w i th the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule specified in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign cur- rency accounts. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Ma lays ia has no exchange controls for nonresidents se l l ing Ma lays ian securities in the coun try, nor does it require them to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. However, non- residents must obtain approval to issue securities in the coun try. No controls apply for transactions valued at less than RM 100,000; for those amoun t- ing to RM 100,000 or more, the fo l low ing requ iremen ts must be met: (1) the payment must be made in foreign currency; (2) the resident must have no domestic borrowing; and (3) for corporate residents w i th domestic credit fac i l i t ies, the total payment to nonresidents for the purpose of inves tment abroad must not exceed the aggregate amount of RM 10 m i l l ion in a calendar year. The prior approval of the COFE is re- quired for transactions that do not comply w i th the above requirements. Since No- vember 15, 1996, inves tment abroad is considered on a corporate group basis. No exchange controls apply to a resident for the sale of securities abroad. However, the resident must obtain approval to issue securities abroad. Approval is given if the proceeds associated w i th these issues are used to f inance productive activities in Ma lays ia, pa r t icu la r ly for projects that generate foreign exchange earnings or save on the fu tu re ou t f low of foreign exchange through the produc t ion of import subs t i tu t ion goods. The proceeds from the sale or permitted issuance of securities are required to be transferred to Ma lays ia. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issuance by nonres iden ts requires the approval of the COFE and the BNM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 MALAYSIA Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issuance requires the approval of the BNM. On money market in s t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing nature. Purchase abroad by residents The same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents When residents issue money market ins trumen ts abroad, it is considered to be obtain- ing credit fac i l i t ies. Residents are freely permitted to obtain credit fac i l i t ies in foreign currency only up to RM 5 m i l l ion. For amoun ts exceeding th is f igure, pr ior approval of the COFE is requ ired. Approval is g iven for foreign currency credit fac i l i t ies raised on reasonable terms to f inance productive ac t iv i t ies in Ma lays ia, pa r t icu la r ly for proj- ects that generate su f f ic ient foreign exchange to service the external debt so created. There is no exchange control on the sale of Ma lays ian securities in the country by nonresidents nor for the latter to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. However, approval is required for nonresidents to issue securities in the country. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On August 4, 1997, the BNM imposed res tr ic t ions requ i r ing banks to l im it ou t s tand- ing noncommercial-related ringgit offer side swap transactions (i.e., forward order/ spot purchases of r ingg it by foreign customers) to $2 m i l l i on a foreign customer. A resident must ob ta in permission to make paymen ts to a nonresident for any spot or forward contract or interest rate fu tu res not transacted at a fu tu res exchange in Ma lays ia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Res iden ts mu st ob ta in perm iss ion to issue and to sell f i n a n c i al in s t rumen ts abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents No controls app ly to residents in the extension of credit to nonres iden ts for the export of goods from Ma lays ia up to a m a x im um period of six mon ths from the date of export. Residents are permitted to ob ta in credit fac i l i t ies in fore ign currency up to the equ iva- lent of RM 5 m i l l ion in the aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any larger amount wou ld requ ire the prior approval of the COFE. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in r ingg it from nonresidents. There is no restriction for residents to obtain commercial credits from nonresidents for the impor- ta t ion of capital goods for a period not exceeding 12 mon ths. No restrictions apply to credits granted by residents in foreign currency to nonresi- dents of less than RM 100,000. Larger credits are permitted, provided that (1) the payment is made in foreign currency and (2) the resident has no domestic bo r row ing; or (3) for corporate residents w i th domestic credit fac i l i t ies, the total payment to non- residents for the purpose of inves tment abroad does not exceed the aggregate amount of RM 10 m i l l ion in a calendar year. The COFE's prior app roval is required for any paymen ts that do not comp ly w i th the above requ iremen ts. Loans to non res iden ts by corporate residents are considered on a corporate group basis. Res iden ts are permitted to ob ta in total credit in fore ign cu r rency of up to RM 5 m i l l ion from licensed banks, licensed merchant bank s, and nonres iden ts. Any larger amount wou ld require the prior app roval of the COFE. Res iden ts are not al- lowed to obtain loans in r ingg it from nonres iden ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment MALAYSIA 561 These transactions are permitted. However, any payment to a nonresident in relation to or consequential to the guarantee must be made in foreign currency. Residents are permitted to obtain f inanc ial guarantees of any amount in ringgit or foreign currency only from (1) a licensed offshore bank in the Labuan International Offshore Financial Center; or (2) nonresident ind iv idua ls or nonresidents who are shareholders, subsidiaries, related or associate companies that are not f inanc ial ins t i- tu t ions, provided all paymen ts related to the guarantees are made in foreign currency. Otherwise, approval is required. Mu l t imed ia Super Corridor (MSC) status companies are allowed to have 100% for- eign equ i ty. There are no exchange controls. However, the fo l low ing inward inves tmen ts require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, merg- ers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Ma lays ia by any means that w i ll cause ownersh ip or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acqu is i t ion of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Ma lays ian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of jo in t-ven ture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance ar- rangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acqu is i t ion of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 m i l l ion in value. Incorporation of a Ma lays ian company by a foreign en t i ty does not require the ap- proval of the FIC. However, increases in the pa id-up capital of a Malaysian company that invo lve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the fo l low ing circumstances: (1) the total va lue of the foreign en t i ty 's new subscription exceeds RM 5 m i l l ion; (2) the total of the foreign en t i ty 's new subscription exceeds 15% of the vo t ing power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in pa id-up capital, any foreign en t i ty increases its vo t ing power to more than 15% in the re levant com- pany; (4) the total of the new subscription by several foreign en t i t ies increases the ir jo int vo t ing power to 30% or more of the vo t ing power in the re levant company; (5) as a resu lt of the increase in pa id -up cap i ta l, the aggregate ho ld ing of several foreign en t i t ies increases to 30% or more of the vo t ing power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Ma lays ian company to more than RM 5 m i l l ion on incorporation, the ho ld ings of foreign entities constitutes more than 15% of the vo t ing power, or the jo int ho ld ings of several foreign entities cons t i tu tes 30% or more of the vo t ing power of the company concerned. In add i t ion, the permitted percentage of equ i ty held by foreigners also depends on the percentage of produc t ion exported, whe ther h igh- techno logy products are purchased or whe ther p r io r i ty products are produced for the domestic market. For projects in- vo lv ing extracting, m in ing, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is permitted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The proceeds of inve s tmen ts may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the com- p le t ion of a s ta t is t ical fo rm for amoun ts of RM 100,000 or more. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts The same regu la t ions app ly as for purchases of shares or o ther securities of a partici- pa t ing na tu re abroad by residents. The quo ta on sales to foreigners of high-end condom in iums was raised to 50% from 30% on October 30, 1997. Add i t iona l ly, foreigners were allowed to acquire two un i ts of condom in iums (up from one prev ious ly). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 MALAYSIA Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Same regu la t ions app ly as for f inanc ial credits. To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. n.a n .a n.a On ly authorized dealers and Tier 1 merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in foreign currency from nonresidents. Other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are subject to con tro ls. Only authorized dealers in foreign currencies are permitted to m a in t a in accounts abroad. Other credit ins t i tu t ions require approval from the COFE to m a i n t a in these accounts. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are allowed to extend loans in foreign currency to nonresidents. A bank ing in s t i tu t ion is, however, allowed to extend credit in r ingg it to: (1) ind iv idu a ls up to an aggregate of RM 200,000 for any purpose except to f inance the acqu is i t ion or development of immovab le property in Ma lays ia; and (2) a bank or a stockbroking company that m a in t a ins an external account, provided tha t: (a) the total credit fac i l i t ies of the borrowers from all bank ing in s t i tu t ions do not ex- ceed RM 5 m i l l ion; and (b) the credit fac i l i t ies are used by (i) the nonresident stockbroker to f inance f u n d i ng gaps if there is a delay in receipt of funds from its nonresident c l ien ts for the payment of securities purchased on the Kua la Lumpur Stock Exchange; and (ii) the nonres ident correspondent bank to f inance unforeseen or inadvertent fund ing gaps arising from the m isma tch ing of receipts and payments through the external account. The extension of loans in r ingg it to nonresidents exceeding the amounts or for purposes other than those stipulated above requires the prior permission of the COFE. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Au tho r ized dealers and merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are allowed, provided that the issuance of the securities has been approved. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The criteria in de te rm in ing banks' net overn ight foreign currency open position l im i ts are based on a ma t r ix that takes in to account the ir shareholders' funds and dea l ing capacity. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io invested abroad n .a. Insurance companies are prohibited from ho ld ing foreign assets except under the fol- lowing circumstances: (1) such inves tment funds wou ld be derived only from premi- ums received from the insu re r 's offshore business; (2) such foreign assets are ma in ta ined solely to meet foreign l iab i l i t ies ar is ing from an in su re r 's insu rance or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution L im i ts (m i n .) on po r t fo l io inves ted loca l ly Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Capital transactions Controls on der iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts Controls on real estate transactions MALAYSIA 563 re insu rance business overseas; (3) the foreign assets should not be more than the amount reasonably required for meeting l iab i l i t ies in foreign currency after tak ing into account expected cash f low; and (4) the COFE approves the transactions. In su rance compan ies are required to invest at least 80% of the ir insurance funds in au thor ized M a l ay s i an assets as specified in the Second Schedule of the Insurance Act (1963). Emp loyee Prov ident Fund (EPF) inves tment in foreign securities is subject to the approval of the M in i s ter of Finance. There are no specific regulations governing for- eign inve s tment of the EPF. However, the EPF is required to invest a m i n im um of 50% of its annual inves t ib le funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal governmen t, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total inves tmen t. U n it t rust funds can invest up to 10% of the f u n d 's net asset va lue in securities listed on foreign stock exchanges. Prior approval from the Securities Commission is re- qu ired for such inve s tmen t. There are no restrictions on foreign f i rms trad ing in the corporate debt, equ i ty, and de r iva t ive ma rke t. However, guidelines set out by the FIC should be observed for the fo l low ing: (1) any proposed acqu is i t ion of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the vo t ing power of a Ma lays ian company or business; (2) company or busi- ness in any merger and takeover in Ma lays ia, whe ther by Ma lays ian or foreign inter- ests; and (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding in value RM 5 m i l l ion, whe ther by Ma lays ians or foreign interests. Foreign companies w i th no subs tan t ial business operations in Ma lays ia are not no rma l ly granted l is t ing on the local stock exchange. Changes During 1997 August 4. Res tr ic t ions were imposed requ i r ing banks to l im it ou ts tand ing noncom- mercial-related r ingg it offer side swap transactions to $2 m i l l ion a foreign customer. October 30. The quota on sales to foreigners of h igh-end condom in iums was raised to 50% from 30%. Also, foreigners were allowed to acquire two un i ts of condom in iums (up from one p rev iou s ly ). Imports and import payments March 5. Res tr ic t ions on impor ts from Ha i ti were l if ted. Exports and export proceeds March 5. Res t r ic t ions on exports to Ha i ti were l if ted. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Maldives is the Ma ld iv ian ru f iyaa. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions The exchange rate is determined by demand and supply in the market, although the Maldives Monetary Au tho r i ty (MMA) may intervene when appropriate. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Foreign currency must be converted to ru f iyaa through a bank or a licensed money changer authorized by the MMA. No. No. Yes. Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id i c al persons N a tu r al persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresident Accounts 564 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 565 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may only be conducted after being registered and licensed at the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t r ies. Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures All goods may be imported under an OGL system. Licenses are issued on app l ica t ion. All pr iva te sector impo r ts of rice, wheat f lou r, and sugar are subject to a quo ta. Impor ts from Iraq and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) are p roh ib i ted. Import taxes and/or tariffs Du t ies are levied on all merchandise i tems other than rice, f lou r, and sugar. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas W i th quo tas Export taxes Export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Trade and Industries. The pr iva te sector may export most i tems, w i th the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. n .a. Quotas for exports of aqua r ium f ish have been in effect since 1982. Exports of f i sh and f i sh products and reexports are exempt from duties. However, a 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 MALDIVES Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Yes. Yes. Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment A l though no law prohibits these purchases, there is a restriction on the foreign pur- chase of shares placed by some companies that have floated their securities. There is a regulation that prevents ra is ing capital th rough pub l ic offer ing; however, it does not d isc r im ina te against foreign par t ic ipa t ion, but requires ma jor i ty government interest and control in operations. No. Yes. Investments require prior approval from the government. Investors are required to provide at least 75% of the ir capital investment in cash or goods financed from outside Maldives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Ma li is the CFA franc issued by the BCEAO. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French f ranc at the rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Ex- change rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the f ixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They inc lude a bank comm iss ion of 0.25% on transfers to all countries ou ts ide the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. There is no exchange tax, but foreign exchange transfers are subject to a s tamp du ty. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged w i th the prior au thor iza t ion of the M in- istry of Finance (MOF). For certain products, the dura t ion of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three mon ths but cannot be renewed. For exports, the dura- tion of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days af ter the a r r ival of the goods at the ir destination. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other coun t r ies l inked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts for transfers to non -WAEMU f ranc zone countries. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Opera t ions Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t im a t e ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Accoun t. Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. n .a. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies The MOF has sole au tho r i ty in exchange control ma t ters but has delegated ce r ta in exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to au thor ized bank s. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Au thor iza t ion from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorab le r u l i ng by the Directorate of Mone tary and F inanc ial A f f a i rs of the MOF, is requ ired to ho ld, sell, impo r t, expor t, or deal in raw d iamonds and precious and sem iprec ious materials. 567 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 MALI Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require au thor iza t ion from the MOF but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, inc lud ing bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a max i- mum weight of 500 grams. Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries are not allowed to take out BCEAO banknotes. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000 requires documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes, or the ir purchase through a means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts No. No. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes c ircu la t ing outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts A dom ic i l ia t ion requ irement exists for all imports exceeding CFAF 500,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 569 P resh ipment inspec t ion Letters of credit An inspection for qu a l i ty and price is required. LCs are required for impo r ts of goods outside EU, Operations Account, and ACP countries. Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import l icens ing requ iremen ts, but impor ts are required to be registered and permits are issued au toma t ica l ly. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Impo r ts are subject to a customs du ty (up to 5%), a f iscal du ty (up to 25%), and a customs service fee (5%). Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and based on c . i .f. values. Petro- leum is subject to a va r iab le levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes rang ing from 7.5% to 55%, but have been temporarily suspended since 1994. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Expor ts to foreign coun tr ies mu st be recorded w i th an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, in c lud ing those or ig ina t ing in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in 30 days of the payment due date or w i t h in 120 days of sh ipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports requ ire on ly a certificate of registration. Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are pe rm i t ted freely. Payments for inv i s ib l es related to trade are pe rm i t ted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not re- qu i re au tho r i z a t ion. Other paymen ts are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. Paymen ts and t rans fe rs for trave l, subscription and membership fees, consu l t ing and legal fees, fore ign workers' wages, pens ion, gamb l ing and prize earnings, f am i ly ma in tenance and a l imony, and the remittance of p ro f i ts and dividends require prior app rova l. P ro f i t /d iv idends Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Am o r t i z a t i on of loans or deprec ia t ion of d irect inv e s tm en ts n.a. n .a. n .a. Paymen ts for t ravel Prior approval Quantitative limits MOF approval is needed for travel outside the f ranc zone and for allowances in excess of the l im i t s. CFA 500,000 a t r ip for tou r i st t ravel and CFAF 2,750,000 for bu s ine ss t ravel ( i n c l u d i ng tou r i st t r ip a l loca t ion ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 MALI Medical costs Prior approval S tudy abroad costs Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits n.a. n .a. The t rans fer of salaries is perm i t ted upon presen ta t ion of the appropriate pay vouche r, prov ided that the t rans fer takes place w i t h in three mon ths of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement w i th the fo re igne r 's country of na t iona l i ty. Credit cards must be issued by resident f in an c i al in termed iar ies and authorized banks. n.a. L im i ts are the same as for tourist and bus iness t rave l. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds, except those from transactions w i th France, Monaco, and the coun tr ies l inked to the French Treasury by an Operations Accoun t, must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movemen ts between Ma li and France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions. Capital transfers to all other countries require au tho r iza t ion from the MOF and are restricted, but capital receipts from these coun tr ies are permitted free ly. On cap i tal ma rket securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents n .a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n .a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n .a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 571 Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts n .a. Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial c red i ts Special controls app ly for borrow ing outside the region. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents These credits are a l lowed if the borrower has the f inanc ial capacity to contract them. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guaran tees, sureties, and f i n a n c i al b a ckup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale locally by nonres iden ts Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls D i f f e r en t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts he ld by nonres iden ts I n v e s tm e nt regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on secur i t ies issued by non res iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. n .a. n .a. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 MALI Limits (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Malta is the Maltese lira. Ma l ta has 23 denominations of gold coins, wh ich are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Administration of control Exchange control authorities The exchange rate of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the pound sterling, the dollar, and the ECU. Unless market conditions indicate otherwise, a variable spread of 0.25% is applied to the middle rate to compute the buy ing and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and the credit institutions (authorized banks). These transactions may be conducted in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or dollars in amounts not less than Lm 150,000. Transactions in smaller amounts are handled through the interbank market. There is no l im it on the spread between the buy ing and selling rates the credit in s t i tu- tions may quote. Authorized banks may also establish rates for currencies not quoted by the CBM based on the latest in terna t ional market rates. No. In May 1997, the subs idy, in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate of the pound sterling provided temporarily by the CBM to tour operators from the Un i ted K ingdom, was terminated. The CBM provides forward cover directly to government departments and pub l ic sector bodies in respect of such transactions. Forward rates are based on interest rate differentials between market rates and international money market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized paymen ts to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese l i ri to an ex- ternal account or in any foreign currency, wh i le the proceeds of exports to all coun- tries may be received in any foreign currency. There is an agreement w i th Libya whereby ou ts tand ing balances are settled in con- ver t ib le currencies w i t h in 90 days. The CBM, as agent for the M in is ter of Finance (MOF), administers exchange controls. Approval au tho r i ty for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the credit in s t i tu t ion s. Au tho r i ty to approve specified foreign ex- change payments has also been delegated to a number of foreign exchange bureaus. The CBM is responsible for i s su ing licenses to operators of such agencies. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 573 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 MALTA In accordance w i th UN sanctions Certain restrictions on paymen ts and transfers to Iraq and L ibya rema in in force in compliance w i th UN Security Council resolutions. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Res iden ts are allowed to hold coins and acqu ire j ew e l ry but mu st ob ta in pe rm iss ion from the CBM to purchase and sell any gold coins th at are not legal tender. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Subject to exchange control perm iss ion, au thor ized impor ters may impo rt gold b u l l i on solely for the m anu f a c tu re of gold articles. The impo r ta t ion of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genu ine n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th the excep- t ion of gold and s i lver f i l igree, the impor ta t ion of w h i ch is s t i ll res tr ic ted, the require- ment of an impo rt license has been removed as of February 1997 for gold coins, gold bu l l ion, and manu fac tu red and sem imanu fac tu red articles of gold and s i lver. The exportation of nonmanufac tured gold by residents other than the mone tary authorities also requires exchange control approva l. Travelers may export up to Lm 25 a person. Nonres ident trave lers may export foreign currency up to the amount they b r ing in. Residents may export up to Lm 2,500 a t r ip. Only Lm 50 in notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Ma l ta may be imported. Subject to the provisions of the Money Laundering Act (1994), any amount of fore ign currency may be imported in connection w i th current or cap i tal transactions. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may invest up to Lm 5,000 a year in sav ings and t ime deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. Export companies may deposit export proceeds in these accounts for a m ax imum period of four mon ths. App roval is not required if amoun ts do not exceed the portfolio inves tment l im it (Lm 5,000 a year) or if the deposited amoun ts are from repatriated fund s. These accounts are permitted, and approval is not required if amoun ts do not exceed Lm 5,000 a year. Subject to exchange control perm iss ion, ju r id ical and na tu ral persons may ma in ta in savings and demand deposit accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. These accounts may be credited w i th funds from overseas sources or w i th income earnings from permitted ac t iv i t ies carried out in Ma l ta. Domestic currency accounts The same cr i ter ia app ly as for fore ign exchange accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 575 Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for all au thor ized imports may be made freely, provided that currency regu- la t ions are complied w i th and that suppor t ing documents, inc lud ing the cus toms en try fo rm for imports over Lm 20,000, and a related import license, where app l icab le, are submitted to the in te rmed ia ry bank. The Director of Impor ts and In ternal Trade in the M in i s t ry for Economic Services administers certain impo rt controls in l ine w i th the Impo r ta t ion Control Regu la t ions (1969). Licenses are requ ired on ly for the impor ta t ion of items that need clearance for h e a l th, safe ty, secu r i ty, and env i ronmen tal reasons, as well as for pa r t icu la r ly sens i t ive i tems, such as fresh and frozen f i sh, handmade lace, and gold and s i lver f i l ig ree. Most products may be imported w i thout an impo rt license. n.a. Yes. No. The impo r ta t ion of bar ley, maize, hard and soft whea t, and certain pe tro leum products is undertaken on ly by state-owned enterprises. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. However, exporters may re ta in export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts w i th authorized banks for up to four mon ths to make impo rt paymen ts connected w i th the ir exporting bus iness. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters mu st subm it a customs documentation form for exports over Lm 20,000. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes W i th the exception of works of art and certain essen t ial goods, all products can be exported freely. Certain tex t i le products for export to countries in the EU require licenses for mon i tor- ing purposes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Paymen ts for t ravel Payments for inv i s ib l es may be made freely, a l though in some cases they are subject to l im i ts on the amoun ts rem i t ted to prevent cap i tal t rans fe rs. In th is regard, suppo r t ing documen ts mu st be presented to au thor ized banks. There are no res t r ic t ions on paymen ts for accommoda t ion and transpor ta t ion expenses, as long as they are paid for in Ma l ta or abroad w i th credit cards. Quantitative limits Res iden ts are en t i t led to a t ravel a l lowance equ iv a l ent to Lm 2,500 a t r ip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Am o u n ts in excess of the above l im it may be granted upon subm iss ion of documen- tary proof of need. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 MALTA Family ma in tenance /a l imony Quantitative limits The annual l im it each resident may t rans fer abroad to other f am i ly members or as a cash g i ft is Lm 2,500. Remittances above th is l im it require exchange control app rova l. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i t h in six mon ths of paymen t. Surrender requ iremen ts Receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or, if permitted by the CBM, deposited in a foreign currency account under the same conditions as those s t ipu la ted for exporters. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Approval from the CBM mu st be obtained to purchase or acquire securities that are not listed on the Ma l ta Stock Exchange. Such approval is not required for por tfo l io inves tment unde r taken by nonresidents in the form of bank deposits, government t reasu ry b i l ls, and securities listed on the Ma l ta Stock Exchange. Securities may not be issued w i thout the approval of the Ma l ta F inanc ial Services Centre (MFSC), the au tho r i ty that is responsible for supe rv is ing and regu la t ing f i n a n- cial services (except bank ing) in Ma l ta. Ind iv idua ls and companies are permitted to invest up to Lm 5,000 a year. Any inves t- ment above that amount requires exchange control approval. Repa tr ia ted f u n ds and insurance payments to residents received from nonresident sources are eligible for inves tment overseas. Residents are perm i t ted to sell their approved ho ld ings of fore ign portfolio invest- ments and acquire other such inves tmen ts. However, they are not permitted to issue secur i t ies overseas w i t h o ut CBM approva l. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Purchase abroad by residents Same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. On money market ins t rumen ts Same regu la t ions apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are perm i t ted, but the issue of these securities requ ires the app roval of the MFSC. Purchase abroad by residents Same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or o ther secur i t ies of a p a r t i c ip a t ing n a tu r e. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Such in s t rumen ts have not been in troduced or issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 577 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Exchange control approval is not required for commercial credits, but export proceeds must be received w i th in six mon ths of sh ipmen t, un less o therw ise authorized. By residents to nonresidents Loans require approval. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Loans in excess of Lm 5,000 may be obtained from foreign sources, provided that the loan is for a period of over three years and related documentation is submitted for registration purposes. Borrowing in excess of Lm 5,000 for a period of less than three years' ma tu r i ty is subject to CBM approval. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are allowed if related to trade transactions. Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Res iden ts, both ind iv idua ls and companies, are allowed to rem it up to Lm 150,000 a year for direct inves tment purposes. Investments in excess of that amount require CBM approval. Prior CBM approval is required. Such au thor iza t ion is denied on ly in exceptional cases. Direct inves tment is u sua l ly proh ib i ted if the inves tment is in the real estate, wholesale, and retail trade sectors (pa r t icu la r ly the impor ta t ion of consumer goods for resale). App l ica t ions for direct inves tment in other activities may also be refused if the sectors invo lved are considered sensitive from a local economy perspective. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The remittance of proceeds requires CBM approval, wh ich is u sua l ly granted once documentary evidence of the original inves tment is submitted. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans CBM approval is required; the CBM considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to purchase real estate overseas us ing funds already held in portfolio inves tmen ts abroad. Nonresidents may acquire immovab le property in Malta as the ir own residence w i th the permission of the MOF, on the condition that the cost of property to be acquired exceeds Lm 15,000 and that funds originate from overseas. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents G if ts are l im i ted to Lm 2,500, but there are no l im i ts for endowments, inheritances, and legacies. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Credit in s t i tu t ion s, other than banks that are authorized to transact only in currencies other than the Maltese lira, as well as certain f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, may hold foreign assets up to a l im it specified by the CBM; this limit is exclusive of foreign assets held as a hedge against foreign currency l iab i l i t ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 MALTA Bo r row ing abroad Such bo r row ings have to be registered w i th the CBM. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Credit in s t i tu t ions may hold accounts sub ject to po r t fo l io l im i t s. Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f i n a n c i al or commerc ial credits) Lend ing and pu rchases of securities abroad are pe rm i t ted, subject to b ank ing direc- t ives on large exposures and as long as fore ign asset po r t fo l io l im i ts are not exceeded. Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Lend ing is pe rm i t ted, sub ject to the fore ign asset po r t fo l io l im i ts s t ipu la ted by the CBM. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors This is subject to the fore ign assets po r t fo l io l im it s t ipu la ted by the CBM. There are q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i ts set by the CBM, w h i ch are rev ised from t ime to t ime. D i f fe rent l im i ts app ly to i n d i v i d u al banks. Inve s tmen ts of f u n ds that o r ig ina te f rom overseas or from res ident sources, as long as the la t ter do not exceed the yea r ly por tfo l io inve s tment a l lowance, are pe rm i t ted. Res ident in su rance compan ies have l im i ts imposed by the CBM on the size of the ir fore ign asset por tfo l io. These l im i ts are revised f rom t ime to t ime. L im i ts (max .) on secur i t ies issued by non res iden ts and on po r t fo l io inve s ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad Yes. Yes. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement May 1. The exchange subs idy in the fo rm of a guaranteed exchange rate of the pound s te r l ing prov ided by the CBM to tour operators f rom the Un i ted K ingdom was te rm ina ted. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 4. The requ i rement of a license for the impo r ta t ion of gold coins, gold bu l- l ion, and m anu f a c tu r ed and sem imanu fac tu red articles of gold and s i lver was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 3 J, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Currency The currency of the Ma rsha ll Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, wh ich are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory bank ing board. The banks buy and sell foreign ex- change at the rates quoted in the in te rna t ional markets. No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Outward and inwa rd paymen ts may be settled in U.S. currency or in any other con- ver t ib le currency. No. Administration of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports No. No. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Approval required He ld abroad Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. n.a. Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 25% of deposits received from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 MARSHALL ISLANDS Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency App roval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of certain products are prohibited for env i ronmen ta l, hea l th, safe ty, or social reasons. Imports are not subject to impo rt licensing requirements, but impor ters must ob ta in a business license. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied on imports. Ad valorem duties range from 5% to 75%. Most items are charged a 10% tar iff rate, wh i le a 5% rate is applied to food items, medicines, bu i ld ing materials, and heavy mach inery. Specific du t ies are applied on cigarettes, certain beverages, and fue ls. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the government- owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 581 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions Foreign inves tors are required to subm it app l ica t ions to the Cabinet and ob ta in a li- cense in order to engage in business or to aquire an interest in a bus iness in the Mar- shall Is lands. Yes. n.a. Foreigners are proh ib i ted from own ing land, but investors can obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years w i th an option to renew on land needed for their business. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents n .a. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The cu r rency of M a u r i t a n ia is the M a u r i t a n i an ougu iy a. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing The exchange rate for the ougu iya is market determined. However, s ince end - Ju ly 1997, the au tho r i t ies have been pu r su ing a more ac t ive foreign exchange po l icy to reverse the apprec ia t ion of the ougu iy a, a l low ing a nom inal depreciation of 2.6% a mon th against the do l lar, compared w i th an average of 1% du r ing the f i rst seven mon ths of 1997. The Central Bank of Mau r i tan ia (CBM) sells fo re ign bankno tes and t rave le r 's checks on ly for o f f ic ial travel and for other exceptional purposes at a com- m iss ion of 1.75%. Only in te rmed ia ry banks and foreign exchange bureaus licensed by the CBM are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange. Au tho r ized banks and ex- change bureaus are free to set the ir comm iss ions for foreign currency transactions. The source of foreign exchange need not be declared, and fore ign exchange may be pu r- chased anonymous ly. Hotels, sh ipp ing companies, travel agencies, and s im i l ar bus i- nesses may buy banknotes and t rave le r 's checks in foreign currencies under the control of a licensed in termed iary bank, but these en t i t ies are not au thor ized to sell such means of payment to the pub l ic and must surrender any foreign exchange they have purchased to the bank that "delegated" au tho r i z a t ion to them. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign c lea r ing t ransac t ions of the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion. This exchange rate is also app l ied to rem i t tances th rough the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion by M a u r i t a n i an workers res id ing abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. A dm i n i s t r a t i on of control is vested in the CBM, the M in i s t ry of Economy and Fi- nance, and the M in i s t ry of Commerce (MOC). Exchange control au tho r i ty to approve current in te rna t ional transactions is delegated to au thor ized banks and foreign ex- change bureaus. All imports must be registered at the CBM for statistical purposes. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears O f f ic ial P r iva te n .a. Yes. Yes. 582 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on ex te rnal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically He ld abroad MAURITANIA 583 All impo r ts and exports of gold, except m anu f a c tu r ed articles con t a in ing a m i n or qu an t i ty of gold, requ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion from the CBM. Travelers are not a l lowed to take out domestic bankno tes and coins. Residents are au thor ized to export foreign exchange ob ta ined lega l ly and must p rov ide documen ta t ion to prove the source. Nonres iden ts of foreign na t iona l i ty may f ree ly export payment in s t rum en ts denominated in foreign currencies in amoun ts up to those declared upon en t ry, less amoun ts surrendered in exchange for ougu iyas in the m in i- mum lump sum of UM 10,000 a day. Prior to the ir depar ture, these nonres iden ts may repurchase foreign exchange from banks and bu reaus if they have surrendered foreign exchange du r ing the ir stay in amoun ts exceeding the m i n im um l ump sum. Non res ident holders of foreign accounts denom ina ted in a fore ign cu r rency or in conve r t ib le ougu iyas may export any t rave le r 's checks denom ina ted in foreign currencies that have been purchased by debit to the a fo remen t ioned accoun ts. Impo r ts are not a l lowed. Residents and nonresidents of Maur i tan ia can freely import foreign banknotes but must exchange them at an au thor ized bank w i t h in 15 days of a r r iva l. Nonres ident for- eign na t iona ls must declare imported foreign bankno tes in excess of $2,000; they can reexport the declared amount m inus the equ iva lent of UM 10,000 for each day of the ir stay. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Exporters ho ld ing import-export permits may open these accounts to deposit the re- tained portion of the ir export proceeds in foreign exchange. These accounts may be debited for expenses re la t ing to exporters' produc t ion ac t iv i t ies or for surrender of foreign exchange to the market. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may freely open accounts w i th banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transac t ions. Other residents are not allowed to m a in t a in accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Except for exporters, these may be held as specified above. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Licensed in te rmed ia ry banks may open free ly the f o l l ow i ng nonres ident accounts: (1) nonres ident conve r t ib le accounts, wh ich may be denominated in foreign currencies or in convertible ougu iyas, and t rans it accounts. Nonres ident convertible accounts may be credited w i th transfers from abroad or from ano ther fore ign account; proceeds from the encashment of checks d r awn on a fore ign bank or on ano ther fore ign account opened in a Mau r i tan ian bank to the order of the account holder; transfers issued by a licensed in te rmed ia ry bank by order of a resident in payment of transac t ions au tho r- ized by the exchange control regu la t ions; and proceeds from the surrender of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 MAURITANIA exchange on account on the foreign exchange market (however, banknotes, whe ther foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for foreign exchange surrendered on the foreign exchange market, funds made avail- able abroad, w i thd rawa ls of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign currency by the holder, transfers in favor of another foreign account or a resident, checks issued by the holder of the account in favor of another nonresident or a resident, and w i thd raw- als of banknotes issued by the CBM; and (2) transit accounts, wh ich may be opened freely by resident consignees on the ir books in the name of sh ipp ing companies. Convertible ougu iya accounts may be credited in the same manner as foreign ex- change accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requirements No. n.a. Advance payment requirement Advance paymen ts for imports require the prior approval of the CBM. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports must be insured w i th the Maur i tan ian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company. Holders of import-export permits are exempted from the domiciliation requ iremen t. Impor ts by those who do not hold import-export permits are subject to the approval of the MOC, and impo rt transactions must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Proof of inspection is required for all impo rt sh ipmen ts in excess of $5,000. n.a. Upon presentation of the import certificate approved by the CBM, the importer may purchase the foreign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. The holders of import-export perm i ts must have a certificate that is endorsed by the CBM. Those who do not hold import-export permits are subject to the au tho r iza t ion of the MOC. n.a. Imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of hea l th or pub l ic policy. Yes. n.a. Five f iscal du ty rates app ly: 27%, 15%, 10%, 5%, and zero. In addition, a customs du ty of 5% and a statistical tax of 3% are levied. Goods that are imported by some pub l ic enterprises or w i th external f inanc ing are exempt from all import duties. Cer- ta in categories of imports from the EU and all imports from the ECOWAS and the Maghreb countries are exempt from the customs du ty. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports of iron ore, wh i ch are a monopo ly of the Na t ional Indu s t r ial and M in ing Company, benef it f rom a special exemp t ion to the repa tr ia t ion of export proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 585 Surrender requ i remen ts Documentation requirements There is a 70% surrender requ i rement (to the market). The rema in ing 30% may be retained in foreign currency accounts for up to 60 days, after wh ich it must be con- verted in the market for ougu iyas. In October 1997, the surrender requirements w i th respect to nonmineral exports were reduced to 10% to 20%. Export certificates subm i t ted to the CBM for s ta t is t ical purposes must specify the qu an t i ty, va lue, and des t ina t ion of all goods. Letters of credit Guaran tees Dom ic i l ia t ion P resh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes n .a. n .a. Exports exceeding UM 20,000 mu st be dom ic i led. n .a. Exports of goods by holders of impor t-export cards require only a cer t if ica te endorsed by the CBM. Exports by those who do not hold th is card are subject to the au thor iza- tion of the MOC. Yes. n .a. A tax is levied on exports of f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for specialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for shrimp and c ray f ish. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Paymen ts for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The s ign ing of a contract for services rendered by nonresidents to residents is subject to the CBM 's endorsement; foreign exchange necessary to pay for their services may be acquired upon presentation of the endorsed contract and a b i ll of costs. Paymen ts for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in i s t ra t ive ex- penses, commissions, consu l t ing and legal fees, f am i ly maintenance and a l imony, interest paymen ts, and remittances of profits and dividends require prior approval and are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. Payments for medical costs, s tudy abroad, subscr ip t ion and membership fees, and foreign workers' wages do not require prior approva l; however, informa t ion on quan t i- tative or indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests for these payments is not available. Amoun ts in excess of the l im it are subject to the prior approval of the CBM. The l im it is UM 15,000 a day for the dura t ion of the stay abroad. For travel purposes, residents may freely purchase banknotes and traveler's checks denom ina ted in foreign currenc ies upon presen ta t ion of the ir passport and a travel t icke t. Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Credit card use abroad n .a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds mu st be repatriated w i t h in four mon ths. Surrender requ iremen ts Earnings from services routinely rendered abroad by residents must be domiciled at a licensed in te rmed ia ry bank. Proceeds must be surrendered in exchange for ougu iyas under the same cond i t ions as proceeds from exports of goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MAURITANIA Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital movements are subject to exchange control. Ou twa rd capital transfers require CBM approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are no rma l ly permitted free ly, a l though the subsequent investment of the funds in M au r i t an ia may require approva l. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n .a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Controls on direct investment Inves tmen ts mu st be declared to the CBM before they are made. Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 587 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f i n a n c i al or commerc ial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued secur i t ies denom ina ted in fore ign exchange D i f f e r en t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange D i f f e r e n t i al t rea tment of deposit accounts he ld by non res iden ts Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts n.a. n.a. n .a. n .a. n .a. n .a. n .a. n .a. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds April 30. The exchange arrangement of M au r i t an ia was reclassified to "managed floating" from "independently floating ." October 1. There was a reduction in the export surrender requirement of nonmineral exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Currency The currency of Mau r i t ius is the Mau r i t ian rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the Mau r i t ian rupee is market determined. No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to the ir clients. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Mau r i t ius is a member of the COMESA. Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. n.a. No. No. No. Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold gold for num i sm a t ic purposes or as personal jewe l ry and ornaments. Controls on ex ternal trade The import of gold was liberalized in Ju ly 1997. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Ju r id ical and na tural persons are e l ig ib le. There is no d is t inc t ion between accounts of residents and nonresidents in Mau r i t iu s. Residents and nonres iden ts may hold accounts w i th domes t ic and offshore banks. Companies and i n d i v i d u a ls may ma in ta in accounts denom ina ted in foreign exchange accounts w i th commerc ial banks. Held abroad Yes. 588 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 589 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Companies and ind iv idua ls may ma in ta in w i th commercial banks accounts denomi- nated in foreign currencies. Companies and ind iv idua ls may ma in ta in w i th commercial banks accounts denom i- nated in Maur i t ian rupees. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Nega t ive list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Importers must be licensed. n .a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Du ty rates range up to 100%, w i th most i tems subject to rates up to 20%. Certain i tems are subject to import excise duties rang ing from 15% to 400%. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quo tas A permit is required for exports of textile products to the United States and Canada. n.a. M au r i t ius abides by quotas on exports of textiles and c lo th ing to the Un i ted States and Canada under b i la teral export res tra int agreements. Sugar exports to the EU are re- stricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention. Sugar exports to the Un i ted States are also subject to quotas. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 590 MAURITIUS Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no re s t r ic t ions on the purchase by non res iden ts of shares listed on the stock exchange. Howeve r, the au tho r iza t ion of the Pr ime M i n i s t er and the M i n i s t er of In te r- nal A f f a i rs is requ ired und er the Non c i t i z ens Propr ie ty R e s t r i c t ion Act (N PRA) for nonres iden ts to pu rchase shares not l is ted on the stock exchange. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Banks mu st comp ly w i th cap i tal adequacy no rms under the gu ide l ines set by the Bas le Committee. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts No. No. Non c i t i z ens b u y i ng property in M a u r i t i us m u st ob ta in the prior pe rm iss ion of the Pr ime M in i s t er and M in i s ter of In te rnal A f f a i rs under the NPRA to acqu ire and ho ld property. The purchase must be f inanced by f u n ds transferred from abroad th rough the bank ing system. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Offshore banks may lend to both residents and non res iden ts in foreign currenc ies. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities de- nom ina ted in fore ign exchange I n v e s tm e nt r e g u l a t i o ns Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Local corporate en t i t ies do not issue securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange. The Bank of M a u r i t i us (BOM) must approve inve s tmen ts in shares. Non res iden ts may invest in shares of commercial banks l is ted on the Stock Exchange of M a u r i t i us (SEM). In the case of banks whose shares are not listed on the SEM, the Prime M in i s t e r 's approval must be sought under the NPRA. In both cases, bank shareho ld ings of 15% or more require approval of the BOM. The overa ll foreign exchange exposure l im it is 15% in re la t ion to Tier 1 cap i tal app l i- cable to domestic commerc ial banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Nonres iden ts are not a l lowed to purchase more th an 15% of shares in the listed sugar compan ies. Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and o ther credit i n s t i t u t i o ns April 17. Banks were requ ired to observe a fo re ign exchange exposure l im it not to exceed 15% of the ir Tier 1 c ap i t a l. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Currency The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Mexican peso is determined in the in terbank foreign ex- change market. On August 1, 1996, the Bank of Mexico (BOM) introduced a scheme to purchase foreign exchange from the market w i thout abandoning the commitment to the floating rate system. Under the scheme, the BOM holds mon th ly auctions of options, g iv ing f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions the r ight to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM in exchange for Mex i- can pesos. The options, wh ich are valid for a one -mon th period, can be exercised at the discretion of the holders, provided that the rate of exchange is no more depreciated than the average rate over the preceding 20 wo rk ing days. The mon th ly auction amount was set at US$130 m i l l ion; the amount was increased to US$200 m i l l ion on Augu st 27, 1996; to US$300 m i l l ion on December 27, 1996; to US$500 m i l l ion on Ju ly 30, 1997; reduced to US$400 m i l l ion on September 29, 1997; and f in a l ly de- creased to US$250 million on October 30, 1997. The BOM doubled the potential amount of options auctioned each mon th on February 19, 1997. If 80% of the options to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM is exercised w i t h in the f i rst 15 days of the mon th, the BOM w i ll conduct a second auction of op- tions for up to another US$250 m i l l ion. The BOM also announced that it wou ld be prepared to auction (sell) up to US$200 m i l l ion a day, but wou ld accept only those bids that are at least 2% more depreciated (in terms of Mex ican pesos per U.S. do l lar) than the fix of the previous day. No. No. Forward cover is available from authorized commercial banks. There is an over-the- counter market in forwards and options in foreign exchange. In add i t ion, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange trades fu tu res contracts on the peso. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In accordance w i th payment agreements w i th the central banks of Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezuela, paymen ts to these countries may be made through the BOM and the central bank of the coun try concerned w i th in the framework of the multilateral clear- ing system of the LAIA. S im i lar payment arrangements exist w i th the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, Ma lays ia, and N icaragua. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative There is an arrangement w i th the central bank of Ma lays ia. 591 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MEXICO Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Yes. No. No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or No. bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id i c al and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Commercial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denom ina ted in U .S. dol- lars payable in Mexico only for (1) residents in the no r the rn border area of Mexico, (2) f i rms domiciled in Mexico in any part of the coun try, and (3) o f f ic ial representa- t ives of foreign governmen ts and in terna t ional organizations and foreigners wo rk ing in these ins t i tu t ions. In case of t ime deposits denom ina ted in U.S. dollars, commercial banks are permitted to open accounts for f i rms established in Mexico but wh ich are payable on ly abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. No. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Indu s t r i al Promo t ion (SECOFI) are required for on ly 76 of the 11,336 items on wh ich Mexico's general impo rt t a r i ff is lev ied, except for temporary impo r ts of raw ma te r ia ls and intermediate goods for ex- port indus tr ies. On average, import licenses cover the app l ican t 's import needs for n ine months and may be extended for three mon th s. Import needs are estimated at 20% above the amount of prev ious actual impo r ts but may be increased when j u s t i- f ied. New licenses are issued on ly if the app l icant can demons tra te that at least 70% ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs MEXICO 593 of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six mon ths to one year, subject to an overall l im i t. Depending on the impor ter's per- formance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Imports of new cars of a given manufac turer are limited to 143% of export levels of the same manufac turer. Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the SECOFI. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import tar iffs range from zero to 20%, w i th h igher rates for some products (c lo th ing, footwear, and leather goods are subject to a 35% tar iff). Imports from members of LAI A are granted preferential du ty treatment. Free trade agreements exist w i th Bo- l iv ia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. Trade w i th the Un i ted States and Canada takes place under the NAFTA. Mexico has applied an t idump ing duties on a variety of products: corrugated rods from Brazil; doorknobs, footwear, tools, walkers and baby carriages, ch inaware, and chemical products from China; bicycle tires from Ind ia; beef from the EU; metal sheets, steel sheets, metal plates, seamless tubes and pipes, gasoline additives, hydrogen peroxide, and polyesthyrene from the United States; and polyesthyrene from Germany. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not requ ire licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to en- dangered species and archaeological pieces are proh ib i ted. Export taxes are limited to only a few items, such as corn f lour, tur t le oil, and electric- i ty, among others. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts; however, wh i le the purchas ing of personal insu rance policies abroad is not restricted, casua l ty insurance policies intended to cover events th at w i ll take place in Mexico may be contracted on ly w i th Mexican compan ies, in c lud ing subs id ia r ies of foreign insu rance companies established in Mexico. Re insu rance may be contracted w i th foreign reinsurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 594 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts MEXICO Capital Transactions There are l im i ts on the percentage of foreign direct inves tmen t. The fore ign ind i rect inve s tment in neu tral shares by purchase of o rd ina ry pa r t ic ipa t ion certificates requ ires SECOFI au tho r iza t ion. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts There are restrictions on issues th rough pub l ic o f fe r ings of fo re ign securities on the domestic cap i tal marke t. Purchase abroad by residents There are res tr ic t ions on the purchase of foreign securities by secur i t ies f i rms for the ir own account and on the accounts of the ir c l ien ts. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts There are restrictions on issues th rough pub l ic offer ings of fore ign securities on the domestic cap i tal market. Purchase abroad by res iden ts There are restrictions on the purchase of foreign securities by securities f i rms for the ir own account and on the accounts of the ir c l ien ts. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are restrictions on issues through pub l ic offerings of foreign securities and other in s t rumen ts on the domestic money market. Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act, on ly documents registered in the Na t ional Registry of Securities and In termed iar ies (NRS I) may be offered p u b l i c l y. Purchase abroad by residents There are restrictions on purchases of foreign securities by securities f i rms for the ir own account and on the accounts of the ir clients. Sale or issue abroad by residents These t ransac t ions are subject to registration w i th the NRS I. On collective inve s tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are restrictions on issues th rough pub l ic offerings of foreign co l lec t ive inves t- ment securities on the domestic securities market and on the in t roduc t ion of foreign inve s tment in a recognized domestic securities market. On ly documents registered in the NRSI may be offered pub l ic ly. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transac t ions are subject to reg is tra t ion w i th the NRS I. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents The holder, who is the benef ic iary of the right consigned in the documen t, may be a fore ign person or corporation. In th is case, the aforementioned persons may on ly ac- qu i re warrants when the unde r ly ing securities are of the free subscription type or re- lated to a neu t ral inves tment trust authorized by the Na t ional Bank ing and Securities Commission. The warran ts should be issued w i th reference to shares registered on the Mexican Stock Exchange and portfolios of representatives; shares of the cap i tal of corporations shou ld be registered on the Mexican Stock Exchange. In add i t ion, it is required that the issuer of the de r iva t ive be a corporation w i th shares registered at the NRS I. Restrictions are applied to the purchase of foreign in s t rumen ts and c la ims by securities f i rm s, except op t ions, fu tu res, and op t ions of fu tu res on the Mex ican Exchange Price Quotation Index, in recognized foreign markets, for their own account and on the accounts of the ir c l ien ts. The Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit establishes a ce i l ing on the amount that credit in s t i tu t ions are allowed to lend to each borrower. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits By residents to nonresidents MEXICO 595 There are res t r ic t ions on issues th rough p u b l ic o f fe r ings of fore ign in s t rum en ts and c la ims on the domestic f i n a n c i al marke t. There are l im i ts on the amount th at credit i n s t i t u t i o ns are allowed to lend to each bor- rower and on the fore ign exchange position of the credit in s t i tu t ion s. To residents from nonresidents There are l im i ts on c red i ts denom ina ted in fo re ign cu r rency and open fore ign ex- change pos i t ion l im i t s. F inanc ial cred i ts Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d i rect inv e s tm ent I nw a rd d irect inv e s tm ent The same r egu l a t ions app ly as for commerc ial credits. A l t h o u gh there exists no res tr ic t ion in th is respect, the Mex ican government reserves the r ight to introduce foreign exchange control measures that may affect ou tward di- rect inves tmen t. Inve s tmen ts are no rm a l ly allowed up to 100% of equ i ty w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, w i th certain exceptions: ( 1) Inves tmen ts in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydro- carbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive m in- erals; te legraph; rad io te legraphy; postal service; issue of paper money; m in t ing of coins; and the control and superv is ion of ports, airports, and heliports; (2) Inves tmen ts in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved exc lus ive ly for Mexican nation- als or Mex ican corporations w i th a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and l iquef ied petroleum gas; radio and te lev is ion broadcasting, w i th the exception of cable te lev is ion; road transport (exc lud ing courier and packaged goods transport services); ra i lroad-re la ted services; credit un ions and development banks; and certain profess ional and techn ical services. However, foreign investors w ish ing to invest in these ac t iv i t ies may acquire shares in companies engaged in these sectors through the Neu t ral Inves tment Mechan ism; (3) Inve s tmen ts in the fo l low ing sectors requ ire prior au thor iza t ion: acqu is i t ion of more than 49% of the equ i ty in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets ex- ceeds US$50 m i l l i o n; r a i lw ay concess iona ire en terpr ise, foreign commerce s h i p p i ng and port services for in te r ior n av ig a t ion; adm in i s t r a t ion of air te rm ina ls; ce l lu lar tele- phones; con s t ruc t ion ac t iv i t ie s, i n c l u d i ng the cons truc t ion of p ipe l ines for o il and i ts der iva t ives; oil and gas d r i l l i n g; legal services; p r iva te education; credit in fo rma t ion; securities ra t ing ins t i tu t ions; and insurance agents. In order to obtain prior authoriza- t ion, inves tors m u st s u bm it the ir proposals to the N a t ion al Comm iss ion of Foreign Inve s tmen t. App roval is au toma t ic if a fo rmal response is not made w i t h in 45 wo rk ing days of the da te of app l i c a t ion. In reach ing its dec is ion, the comm iss ion takes in to account the impact of i n v e s tm e n ts on emp loym ent and t r a in ing of workers, the techno- logical con tr ibu t ion, compliance w i th env ironmen tal provisions in re levant laws, and the con t r ibu t ion to the economy; and (4) Ce i l ings on foreign owne r sh ip are app l ied to the fo l low ing sectors: f inanc ial ins t i- tu t ion s; a ir t ran spo r ta t ion; m anu f a c tu r ing of exp los ives and f i rea rms; p r in t ing and pub l i c a t ion of domestic newspapers; acqu i s i t ion of land for ag r icu l tu re, livestock, and forestry purposes; f i sh ing, other th an p isc icu l tu re, in coastal and fresh waters or in the Exc lus ive Economic Zone; cable te lev is ion and basic telephone services; video text and packe t - sw i tch ing services; and t ranspo r ta t ion by air and land, and certain ac t iv i- ties related to ma r i t ime t ranspo rt and supp ly of fue ls and lub r i c an ts for sh ips and ra i l- road equ ipmen t. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonres iden ts The res tr ic t ions are the f o l l ow i n g: (1) the acqu i s i t ion by fore ign nonresidents of real estate ou ts ide a 100-kilometer s tr ip a longs ide the Mex ican land border and a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 596 MEXICO 50-kilometer strip in land from the Mexican coast, provided the investor agrees to consider himself Mexican and to refra in from invok ing the protection of the inves to r 's government regarding the property thus acquired; and (2) the acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate through a real estate trust w i th in the zones defined above. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Borrowing abroad is permitted, subject to the l im i ts of the l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denominated in foreign currency and to open foreign exchange position l im i t s. Resident banks can m a in t a in accounts abroad but mu st m a i n t a in an e q u i l i b r i um be- tween the ir positions in foreign exchange and domestic currency. Lending in foreign currency is perm i t ted, subject to open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts and to the ce i l ing of the amount that credit i n s t i t u t i o ns are allowed to lend to each borrower. Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign currencies, but the debt may be dis- charged by delivering the equivalent amount in accordance to the rate of exchange in domestic currency. Credit ins t i tu t ions must keep as liquid assests denominated in foreign currency an amount determined by a fo rmu la based on the ma tu r i ty structure of the ir debts payable in foreign currency. Credit ins t i tu t ions must keep as l iqu id assets denominated in foreign currency an amount determined by a fo rmu la based on the ma tu r i ty structure of the ir debts payab le in foreign currency. Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Yes. In banks by nonresidents There are l im i ts on foreign inves tment in commercial banks. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on po r t fo l io invested abroad The liabilities of commercial banks denominated in foreign currency must not exceed the larger amount of either (1) 14% of the daily balances of their liabilities in the pre- v ious quarter, or (2) 1.6 times the net capital of the ins t i tu t ion. Commercial banks mu st balance the ir positions in foreign currency on a da i ly basis, subject to a covered exchange rate r isk, irrespective of the residence of the lender. Short and long pos i t ions are acceptable as long as they do not exceed 15% of the bank 's net capital. Insu rance companies can transact w i th nonres iden ts in the fo l low ing areas: (1) adm in- istering the reserves retained from domestic or foreign insurance companies corre- spond ing to reinsurance operations; (2) effec t ing foreign inves tmen ts of technical reserves corresponding to operations that take place abroad; and (3) cons t i tu t ing bank ing deposits abroad. There are three types of m u t u al fund s: (1) var iab le- income mu tual funds in w h i ch foreign persons and corporations can acquire representative shares of mu tu al funds as we ll as foreign f inanc ial entities and groups of foreign persons; (2) f ixed- income mu- tual funds in wh ich representative shares of th is type of fund can be acquired by for- eign persons and corporations, foreign f in an c i al en t i t ie s, and groups of fore ign corporations; and (3) cap i ta l - r isk m u t u al f u n ds in wh i ch the representative shares of th is type of fund may be acquired by foreigners, both i n d i v i d u a ls and corporations, provided that the ir pa r t ic ipa t ion does not exceed 49% of the shares of the respec t ive mu tual f u n d. M u t u al f u n d s' po r t fo l ios may not be inves ted abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 597 L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Mu tu al fund s' portfolios may not be invested abroad. No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 February 19. Two modifications to the exchange rate system were introduced. First, the BOM doubled the potential amount of options auctioned each mon th to US$600 m i l l ion. If 80% of the options to sell U.S. dollars to the BOM is exercised w i th in the f i rst 15 days of the mon th, the BOM w i ll conduct a second auction of op- tions for the same amount auctioned. Second, the BOM also announced that it wou ld be prepared to auction (sell) up to US$200 m i l l ion a day in the foreign market, but would accept only those bids that are at least 2% more depreciated (in terms of Mexi- can pesos per U.S. dollar) than the fix of the previous day. March 4. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import tar iffs on clorihydrate of L-cisteina from Ch ina. August 22. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import tar iffs on gasoline additives from the Un i ted States. September L SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import ta r i f fs on apples from the United States. September 2. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import ta r i f fs on hydrogen peroxide from the Un i ted States. September 8. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import ta r i f fs on walkers and baby carriages from Taiwan Province of Ch ina. October 23. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import ta r i f fs on furazo l idona from Ch ina. December 2. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive import ta r i f fs on polyesthyrene from the Un i ted States and Germany. Changes During 1998 January 15. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive tar iff measures on cover flat steel from the Un i ted States. January 23. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive ta r i ff measures on corn syrup from the Un i ted States. February 11. SECOFI imposed p u n i t i ve tar iff measures on cut bond paper from the Un i ted States. February 20. SECOFI imposed pun i t ive ta r i ff measures on roller sheets from Braz i l, Canada, Repub l ic of Korea, South A f r ica, the United States, and Venezuela. March 20. SECOFI imposed p u n i t i ve tar iff measures on plate sheets from the Russ ian Federation and Uk ra ine. March 23. SECOFI imposed p u n i t i ve tar iff measures on roller v i n yl flooring from the Un i ted States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: J u ne 24, 1993. Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. do l la r. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing The au thor i t ies do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, wh ich are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory bank ing board. The banks buy and sell foreign ex- change at the rates quoted in in te rna t ional markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted th rough commercial banks w i thout res tr ic t ion. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 599 Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted App rov al required Domestic currency accounts Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency App rov al required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. n .a. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Impor ters mu st ob ta in a bus iness license. Impor ts of certain p roduc ts are prohibited for env i ronmen ta l, hea l th, safety, or social reasons. Impo rt duties are levied on an ad valorem or specific basis as fo l lows: cigarettes, car- bonated nonalcoholic beverages, d r ink m ixes and preparations, coffee, tea, beer, ma lt beverages, and w ines, 25%; sp ir i ts and d is t i l led alcoholic beverages, $10 a U .S. gal- lon; and gasoline and diesel fu e l, 50 a U .S. ga l lon. Ad valorem du t ies are 3% on food s tu f f s, 100% on l a u n d ry bar soap, and 4% on all other products. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Expor ts are not sub ject to l icens ing requ i remen t s, taxes, or qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions. The pu rcha s ing and expo r ta t ion of copra are conducted solely by the Coconut Devel- opment A u t h o r i t y. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 600 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions n.a. Banks are prohibited from lending more than the equivalent of 50% of the ir deposits to nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Foreign investors must ob ta in an application from the federal government and subm it it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in wh ich the business w i ll be located. They must obtain a license from the federal government to engage in business or to aquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and subm i t ted to the Federal Investment Board of each of the states in wh ich the business w i ll be located and operated. Priorities for foreign inves tment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accor- dance with the laws prohibiting landownership by foreigners. Foreign investors nor- ma l ly obtain long-term leases (usua l ly up to 25 years w i th an option to renew for another 25 years) for land needed for their business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 50% of deposits received from residents. In practice, the regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferr ing deposits abroad. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independent f loa t ing On ly the rate against the U.S. dollar is quoted in the daily f ix ing sessions at the Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange of Moldova (IFCEM). The off ic ial exchange rate is used for accounting and tax va lua t ion purposes. Ins t i tu t ions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are author- ized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in any currency. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set the ir own buy ing and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Reg ional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Na t ional Bank of Mo ldova (NBM) has concluded bilateral agreements on settle- ments w i th the central banks of the CIS and Baltic countries. Moldova is a member of the Paymen ts Un ion w i t h in the CIS. The NBM has the u l t im a te au thor i ty in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for manag ing the coun t ry 's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and gran t ing licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions, as we ll as con tro l l ing repa tr ia t ion of fund s, and goods and services. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con t ro ls on domes t ic owne r sh ip and/or trade The M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) establishes regulations governing domestic trade. Con t ro ls on ex te rnal trade A license f rom the MOF is requ ired to conduct in te rna t ional trade in gold. 601 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 MOLDOVA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly The export l im it is MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonres iden ts. For freely convertible currencies, the l im it is $50,000 upon presentation of a customs declaration for the impo r ta t ion of the currency or approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. W i thout these documents, the l im it is $5,000 for residents and as much as was imported or received from abroad for nonresidents. For nonconver t ib le curren- cies, there are no l im i t s. The l im it is MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonresidents. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical persons are permitted to have no more th an one account in a free ly converti- ble currency and in each of the nonconve r t ib le currencies, and one account in Moldo- van lei. Na tu ral persons may open an account only in Mo ldovan lei or in a free ly conve r t ib le currency. All foreign currency earn ings of residents must be deposited in the ir accounts at authorized banks. Account holders may not use foreign exchange balances in the ir accounts to settle domestic transactions. Approval by the MOF is required on ly for organizations financed from the budget. Held abroad These accounts are perm i t ted, but approval from the NBM is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency These accounts may be used for cu r rent in te rna t ional t ransac t ions and for capital transactions, in accordance w i th the Law on Foreign Inves tmen t. Approval from the NBM is required for capital transactions. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresidents w i th foreign currency deposits at authorized banks in Mo ldova may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the fore ign exchange market th rough au thor ized banks. Accounts in Mo ldovan lei may be opened by nonresidents from CIS countries w i th approval from the central bank of the relevant country. Other nonresidents may open accounts in Moldovan lei at authorized banks in Moldova if the funds were received from selling foreign exchange in the foreign exchange market in Moldova or as a re- su lt of selling goods, prov id ing services, or other labor. Nonresidents may convert Moldovan lei in to foreign exchange provided the lei were received as a resu lt of a current in te rna t ional transaction, w i th the exception of Moldovan lei received from selling restricted currencies (for CIS countries and Ro- man ia). For nonresident na tural persons, conversion into a freely convertible currency is allowed if the foreign currency was prev ious ly imported or transferred into Moldova and sold to a bank, and customs documents show ing that the foreign currency had been imported in to Mo ldova are submitted to the pu rcha s ing bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 603 Blocked accounts These are accounts of ju r id i c al persons blocked by the U .S .S .R. Vnesheconombank in 1992. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ i rement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated in to Mo ldova no later than 90 days af ter such advance payment was effected. A contract w i th a non res ident for impo r ta t ion from abroad is required. Imports of med ic ine, medical equ ipmen t, chemicals, and indu s t r ial waste are subject to l icens ing for the purpose of protecting the consumer and ensuring compliance w i th domestic standards. There are 13 ta r i ff bands for impor ts, w i th the max imum tar iff applied to tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and jewe l ry. The fo l low ing are exempt from the import customs ta r i f f: pharmaceu t ical products, fer t i l izers, textbooks, cotton, vehicles, and base metals and products thereof. Imported goods and services are subject to 20% value-added tax, w i th the exception of goods o r ig ina t ing in the Russ ian Federation (a lcoho l ic beverages, tobacco products, jewe l ry, gasoline, diesel fue l, and automo- b i les). E f fec t ive Ap r il 24, 1997, the ta r i ff on fresh f ru i ts was changed from 50% to a seasonal p ro f i le of 20-40%. Customs fees are also applied. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds f rom exports mu st be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issuance of the custom declaration or from the date of a b i l l, s ta temen t, or protocol con f i rm ing that services have been rendered or work done. Su r render requ i remen ts Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements A declaration on the repa t r ia t ion of foreign exchange proceeds is required. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Effec t ive August 13, 1997, export licenses and no rma t ive prices were abolished, ex- cept for a l im i ted l ist of goods considered impo r tant and for hea l th and security reasons. Yes. W i th the exception of exports to the Russ ian Federation, there are no taxes on exports, except for a cus toms fee of 0.25% of the va lue of the sh ipmen t. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments In general, for paymen ts in free ly conver t ib le currencies of up to $1,000, a na tu ral person mu st show a suppo r t ing documen t. For paymen ts over $1,000, approval by the NBM is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 604 MOLDOVA Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Repayment of loans registered w i th the NBM is permitted. Payments for depreciation of direct investments that are registered w i th the NBM and that exist on the basis of certificates of registration of direct investments may be made. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits For amounts in freely convertible currencies in excess of $5,000 a trip, a resident un- able to produce evidence of the currency's importation or receipt from abroad must obtain prior approval. Residents may export up to $5,000 of freely convertible currencies. Approval from the NBM is required for freely convertible currencies in excess of $1,000. Residents may transfer up to $ 1,000 in freely convertible currencies for treatment upon presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are freely approved, subject to documentation. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval from the NBM is required for freely convertible currencies in excess of $1,000. Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies for education costs upon presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are freely approved, subject to documentation. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Prior approval from the NBM is required for amounts in freely convertible currencies in excess of $1,000. Quantitative limits Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amoun ts are freely approved, subject to documen ta t ion. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Prior approval from the NBM is required for freely convertible currencies in excess of $1,000. Quantitative limits Residents may transfer up to $1,000 in freely convertible currencies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are freely approved, subject to documentation. Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Yes. Residents may export up to $5,000. Nonresidents are not permitted to transfer prize earnings abroad. Prior approval from the NBM is required for freely convertible currencies in excess of $1,000 for fam i ly maintenance/alimony. Quantitative limits Res iden ts may transfer up to $ 1,000 of freely convertible currencies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are freely approved, subject to documen ta t ion. Credit card use abroad Issuance of credit cards against accounts of ju r id i c al persons is allowed, and issuance of debit cards against type "A" accounts of na tu ral persons is a l lowed. Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds from inv i s ib le s, except the earnings of workers res id ing abroad, mu st be repatriated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 605 Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Registration of the impor ta t ion of capital and licensing of its exportation are required. Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be sold on the territory of the Repub l ic of Moldova only in the form of Moldovan Depository Receipts (MDRs) issued by residents who are profes- sional participants in the securities market. NBM approval for the exportation of capital from the Repub l ic of Moldova is required for registration of MDR issuance. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is required, and MOF approval is required for government bonds. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration w i th the State Securities Market Commission (SSMC) is required. Issu- ance is permitted only in Moldovan lei. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration w i th the SSMC is required. Issuance is permitted only in Mo ldovan lei. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required for foreign investors to purchase state securities. A ru le was introduced in March 1997 whereby a single investor (resident or nonresident) may account for no more than 35% of the issuance of a g iven government security pur- chased in an auction or on the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBM approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents NBM approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBM approval is required. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBM is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration w i th the NBM is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the NBM is required. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required. Purchase abroad by residents Licensing by the NBM is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBM is required. Controls on credit operations Loan agreements w i th nonresidents are required to be registered w i th the NBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 606 Commercial credits MOLDOVA By residents to nonresidents L icens ing by the NBM is required. To residents from nonresidents The agreement shou ld be registered w i th the NBM. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents L icens ing by the NBM is requ ired. To residents from nonresidents Contracts mu st be registered w i th the NBM. Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Contracts mu st be registered w i th the NBM. By residents to nonresidents L icens ing by the NBM is requ ired. To residents from nonresidents Contracts mu st be registered w i th the NBM. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Licensing by the NBM is requ ired. Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBM is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents L icens ing by the NBM is requ ired. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration w i th the NBM is required. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Licensing by the NBM is required to transfer proceeds. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Au tho r iza t ion by the NBM is required. To residents from nonresidents Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBM is required m a in ly for s ta t is t ical purposes. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Permitted w i th NBM approval only upon presentation of re levant documentation and on ly by a close re la t ive. L im i ted to income earned and past transfers by imm ig ran ts in to Mo ldova. Transfer abroad by emigrants This requires the approval of the NBM upon presen ta t ion of suppo r t ing documen ts. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Reg is tra t ion w i th the NBM is requ ired. M a in t en an ce of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange For types "B" and "C" bank ing licenses (w i th aggregate no rma t ive cap i tal of more than MDL 8 m i l l ion) no restriction applies to accounts in freely conver t ib le cu r rency, but approval of the NBM is required to open accounts in nonconve r t ib le currenc ies. Licensing by the NBM is requ ired. Au thor ized banks are perm i t ted to lend in free ly conver t ib le currenc ies on ly to impo r t- ers that are resident j u r i d i c al persons. Securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange are not issued in the coun t ry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 607 D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 30% of the bank 's l iab i l i t ies for demand deposits. Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on portfolio inves ted abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Yes. n.a. n.a. NBM approval is required. There is no d i f fe ren t ia t ion between residents and nonresidents. The l im it for both long and short exchange positions is 10% of aggregate norma t ive capital for each currency and 20% for all currencies. Nonres iden ts may not issue securities w i thout the approval of the SSMC. Licensing by the NBM is required. Registration w i th the NBM is required. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Resident and nonresident investors and p r ima ry dealers are proh ib i ted from purchas- ing more than 35% of a single issue of government securities. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rumen ts Changes During 1997 April 24. The tar iff on fresh f ru i ts was changed to a seasonal prof i le of 20^-0% from 50%. August 13. Export licenses and norma t ive prices were abolished, except for a limited l ist of goods for hea l th and secur i ty reasons. October 16. Exports of unbo t t led w ine, sun f lower seeds, and nonfermen ted tobacco were temporar i ly banned. March 1. As of th is date, a single inves tor (resident or nonres iden t) may not hold state securities in an amount exceeding 35% of the issuance of a given security purchased on the primary or secondary markets. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions February 1. Reserve requirements were introduced solely in Moldovan lei for l iab i l i- ties of commercial banks in freely convertible currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Mongolian tugr ik. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing In principle, the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the tugr ik is set da i ly by the Bank of Mon- golia (BOM) as the midpoint of the previous day 's average buy ing and selling rates established by transactions among pa r t ic ipan ts in the in terbank foreign exchange mar- ket. However, the vo lume of trad ing is very low, and the BOM cu r ren t ly adjusts the off ic ial rate only once a week rather than once a day. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is applied to pub l ic sector imports and service paymen ts, inc lud ing debt service, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral payment arrangements. All other transactions, inc lud ing sales of retained foreign exchange by pub l ic sector enter- prises, take place through the interbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the dollar in interna- tional markets. The spread between commercial banks' buy ing and selling rates is l im i ted to 1%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Some of the ou ts tand ing balances under the clearing arrangements of the former Inter- na t ional Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) are s t i ll under negotiation. Under inopera t ive bilateral trade arrangements, there are also ou ts tand ing balances w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Is lam ic State of A fgh an i s t an, and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). Mongolia ma in ta ins a b i la teral clearing agreement w i th the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea. In terna t ional transac t ions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law (1994). In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Mongo l ia no t if ied the IMF on November 4, 1994, that res t r ic t ions had been imposed on certain transac t ions w i th the Federal Repub l ic of Yugo s lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears n .a. No. 608 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 609 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exporters of gold must register their exports w i th the BOM or a commercial bank. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange,accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited w i th retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and the balances may be used for any purpose w i thout restriction. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. However, jur id ical persons must register w i th the State Registry. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Specific excise taxes are levied on imports of alcohol and cigarettes. Imports of drugs, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause env ironmen tal damage are banned. Imports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under in terna t ional contracts and agreements require a special permit. On Apr il 1, 1997, all customs duties were eliminated except that on alcoholic spirits, wh ich is assessed at 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 MONGOLIA Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quo tas Export taxes Exports of h is to r ical ar t ifac ts, precious metals, weapons, rad ioac t ive ma ter ia ls, fe r rous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under in te rna t ional contracts and agreements requ ire a special pe rm i t. Yes. Export taxes app ly to the export of nonferrous and scrap me ta ls. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Other export taxes Un t il June 1997, export taxes applied to the export of non fe r rous and scrap ma ter ia ls, and in the same mon th an export tax on raw cashmere and raw camel wool was in troduced. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts; however, in fo rma t ion on paymen ts for am- or t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts, or on the use of credit cards abroad is not ava i lab le. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Issue of capital market securities is proh ib i ted, Bonds or other debt securities n .a. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue of money market ins t rumen ts is proh ib i ted. On collective inve s tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue of co l lec t ive inve s tment securities is p roh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 6 11 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issue of derivatives and other instruments is prohibited. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Reg is tra t ion w i th the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) is required. To residents from nonresidents Reg is tra t ion w i th the BOM is required. F in an c i al c red i ts By residents to nonresidents Reg is t ra t ion w i th the MOF is requ ired. To residents from nonresidents Reg is tra t ion w i th the BOM is required. Controls on direct investment Ou tw a rd direct inve s tment Inw a rd direct inve s tment n.a. Inves tment by pr iva te corporations is encouraged pa r t icu la r ly in projects invo lv ing export promo t ion, the use of advanced technology, and the exploitation of na tural resources. The Law on Foreign Inves tment guarantees that foreign f i rms w i ll not be na t iona l ized and that foreign investors w i ll have the r ight to dispose of their assets. The m ax imum rate of prof it tax is 40%, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for three to ten years, depend ing on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that en t i t ies w i th foreign par t ic ipa t ion may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with foreign trade enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Registration w i th the State Real Estate Registry is required. Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Registration w i th the State Real Estate Registry is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Registration w i th the BOM is required. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad BOM perm iss ion is requ ired. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 20% of cap i ta l, in c lud ing a subce i l ing of 10% for any i n d i v i d u al currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Securities may be issued only by government in s t i tu t ions upon the approval of the Great Hu ral or by companies registered in Mongo l ia. It is prohibited to lend securities. Any person owning 5% or more of total shares of any company must report it to the Securities Committee of the Great Hural w i th in f ive days after acquisition. Any person who intends to own directly or indirectly 20% or more of total shares of any company must make a tender in accordance w i th Ar t ic le V I II of the Securities Law of Mongolia. Imports and import payments April L All customs du t ies were eliminated, except for that on alcoholic spirits. Exports and export proceeds June 30. An export tax on raw cashmere and raw camel wool was introduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Janua ry 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan d i rham. Commemorative gold coins w i th a face va lue of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemo- rative silver coins w i th a face va lue of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The exchange rate is determined freely in an in terbank foreign exchange market. Bank A l -Magh r ib (BAM) intervenes in the market to ma in ta in rates w i th in a spread around the central rate. The central exchange rate of the Moroccan d i rham is pegged to a bas- ket of currencies comprising Morocco's p r inc ipal trading partners, and weighted in accordance w i th the geographic d is tr ibu t ion of Morocco's foreign trade and the pat- tern of currencies of settlement. The BAM fixes da i ly rates for the rated currencies on the basis of variations in the value of the basket. Rates for most currencies quoted in Morocco are established on the basis of the da i ly d irham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French f ranc in the in te rna t ional ex- change markets. No. No. Yes. The o f f ic ial forward foreign exchange cover fac i l i ty was suspended in June 1996, fo l low ing the creation of the foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Arrangements w i th Mali and Gu inea have been inope ra t ive since the 1960s. There is a regional payment arrangement operated by the central banks of A lger ia, L ibya, Mau r i tan ia, Morocco, and Tun is ia. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Foreign Exchange Off ice (FEO), an agency under the M i n i s t ry of Finance. This off ice has delegated the execu t ion of the m a in exchange control measures to au thor ized banks. Impo rt and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Foreign Trade. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 612 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 613 In accordance w i th UN sanctions Morocco ma in ta ins restrictions for security reasons against Iraq and the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) pu rsuant to UN Security Council resolutions. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num i sma t ic or in- vestment purposes. Ten d ifferent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange, wh ich does not, however, deal in gold bars. Impor ts of gold are subject to au thor iza t ion from the Customs and Indirect Taxes Adm in is t ra t ion. Each year, the M in i s t ry of Finance f ixes a quo ta for the impor ta t ion of gold ingots. The quo ta is then allocated among jewe lers and indu s t r ial users of pre- cious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. The exportation of domestic bankno tes is proh ib i ted. V is i tors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange aga inst presen ta t ion of exchange certificate(s) up to the amount of the or ig inal conversion of foreign ex- change in to d i rham s. Residents may also export foreign bankno tes fo l low ing general or special app roval by the Exchange Office. The impor ta t ion of domestic banknotes is proh ib i ted. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, trave ler's checks, and other means of payment denom ina ted in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign bankno tes in any amoun t, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them w i t h in 30 days of the ir re turn to Morocco. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Any Moroccan exporter of goods or services already ho ld ing a convertible export promo t ion account (CCPEX) is allowed to open a foreign exchange account. Those w i t h o ut a CCPEX must receive pr ior approval from the Exchange Office. Up to 20% of foreign exchange receipts may be credited to these accounts s imu l taneous ly w i th the sale of the r em a in ing 80% to domestic banks. There is no restriction on cred i t ing foreign exchange accounts either w i th the proceeds from f inanc ial inves tmen ts held in the accounts or with transfers from another of the holder's foreign exchange accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for payment of business expenses, as provided for in the exchange regu la t ions, for inves t ing in authorized intermediary banks, for subscribing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for cred i t ing another fore ign exchange account or a CCPEX held in the expor ter's name, or for surrender of foreign currency to banks. He ld abroad Except for foreign n a t ion a l s, app roval to open these accounts is requ ired. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Exporters of goods and services may open accounts in convertible d i rhams at Moroc- can bank s, wh i ch may be credited w i th the d i rh am equ iva lent of 20% of repatriated fore ign currency sold to domestic banks. Funds in these accounts may be used to fi- nance expenses incurred abroad and related to the ho lde r 's bus iness ac t iv i ty. F ish ing compan ies may place up to 100% of the d i rham equ iva lent of the ir repatriated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 MOROCCO Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted exchange receipts in these accounts. Exporters may choose e i ther a fore ign exchange account or a conver t ib le export promo t ion accoun t, or may ho ld both k ind s, p rov ided the overall percentage of repatriated foreign exchange receipts placed in the accounts does not exceed the 20% l im i t. Nonresident Accounts J u r i d i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. The fo l low ing accounts may be opened: ( 1) Foreign currency accounts in the names of fore ign na t iona ls may be ma in ta ined by n a tu r al or j u r i d i c al persons of fo re ign n a t ion- a l i ty who are e i ther res iden ts or non res iden ts. These accoun ts may be free ly credited w i th transfers from abroad w i th foreign banknotes, checks, t rave le r 's checks, or any other means of payment denom ina ted in foreign cu r rency and w i th foreign cu r rency w i t h d r awn from domestic banks, f o l l ow i ng general or special au tho r iza t ion f rom the FEO. They may be free ly debited for t ran s fer abroad in favor of the account ho lder or to a foreign th i rd pa r ty, for the surrender of foreign currency to domes t ic banks, and for the payment of checks denom ina ted in fore ign cu r rency; (2) Foreign currency ac- coun ts may be opened by i n d i v i d u a ls of Moroccan n a t i o n a l i ty res id ing abroad in th e ir name. These accounts may be credited freely w i th t ran s fe rs from abroad, checks or any other means of payment denom ina ted in foreign currency, foreign currency w i t h d r awn from domestic banks fo l low ing general or special au tho r iza t ion from the FEO, the re tu rn on inves tmen ts effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or f rom an account in conver t ib le d i rhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, t rans fe rs to another account in fore ign cur- rency or in conve r t ib le d i rham s, fore ign currency subsc r ip t ions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for the surrender of fore ign currency to domes t ic banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible in to foreign currency These are restricted to res ident or nonres ident n a tu r al and j u r i d i c al persons of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i ty and may be free ly credited w i th gene ra l ly or spec i f ica l ly au tho r ized t rans- fers, and w i th d i rh ams ob ta ined f rom the sale to b anks of fore ign exchange, i n c l u d i ng banknotes. They may be free ly debited for paymen ts made in Morocco and for pur- chases of foreign exchange at banks. There are no restrictions on t ran s fe rs between fore ign accounts in convertible d i rhams or on t rans fe rs of interest. Ho lders of these accounts may ob ta in in te rna t ional credit cards for se t t lement of all expenses in Mo- rocco and abroad. Conve r t ib le d i rham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonres ident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdraf ts are not a l lowed, and there are no res tr ic t ions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th (1) d i rhams f rom the sale of conver t ib le currencies, i n c l u d i ng bankno tes, to domestic banks; (2) transfers au thor ized by the FEO; (3) paymen ts of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in conver t ib le d i rh am s; and (5) t rans fe rs from term deposits in convertible d i rham accounts. They may be debited free ly for ( 1) the purchase of fore ign exchange from domes t ic banks; (2) d i r h am p aym en ts in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in conve r t ib le d i r h am s; and (4) t ran s fe rs to term deposits in conve r t ib le d i rh am accounts. These accounts may also be debited f ree ly, either for the bene f it of the account ho lder or for other nonres iden ts, for the purchase of fore ign bankno tes, t rave le r 's checks, or other fore ign-currency-denom ina ted means of paymen t. Conve r t ib le d i rh am accounts for exporters may be opened by exporters of goods or services w i th Moroccan bank s. These accounts may be credited w i th the equ iva lent of 20% of the fore ign cu r rency repatriated and surrendered to domestic banks. Balances on these accounts may be used to f inance expend i tu res contracted abroad and l inked to the p ro fess ional a c t iv i ty of those concerned. F i sh ing compan ies may credit to these accoun ts up to 100% of the fore ign cu r rency repa tr ia ted. Exporters have the choice of m a i n t a i n i ng e i ther fore ign currency accoun ts or conve r t ib le d i r h am ac- coun ts. They may also hold both accounts s im u l t a n e o u s l y, prov ided that the ove ra ll percentage of export ea rn ings to be credited to both accoun ts does not exceed 20% of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 615 foreign exchange earnings. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not en t i t led to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred w i th in a max imum period of f ive years. The holders of such accounts may use the available fund s, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion from the FEO, to fund inves tmen ts in Morocco; buy treasury bonds; purchase Moroccan marketable securities; settle expenses incurred in Morocco; and, in the case of fore ign corpora- t ions, provide the ir Moroccan subsidiaries w i th cu r rent account advances. They may also freely t rans fer the balances to resident or nonres ident foreigners or to Moroccan na t iona ls residing abroad. The beneficiaries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shoo t ing f i lms in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain cond i t ions; and to f inance up to 50% of an inves to r 's pa r t ic ipa t ion in inves tmen ts in Morocco ( the rema inder must be f inanced w i th funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested w i th the proceeds of conve r t ib le term accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout res tr ic t ion in the event of l iqu ida t ion or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year w a i t ing period. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requ iremen ts Advance payment requirement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports For all imports, an impo rt certificate lodged w i th an au thor ized bank is required to make payments related to goods and incidental costs. Imports used for the production of export goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange c la ims of the same exporter w i th in the framework of special lines of credit that Mo- roccan commercial banks are authorized to contract w i th the ir foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance paymen ts abroad for imports of capital goods up to 40% of the ir f.o.b. va lue. On November 4, 1997, the m ax imum rate for advance paymen ts on impo r ts of cap i tal goods was raised to a max imum of 40% of the f.o.b. va lue of the imports. Advance payment is l im i ted to the foreign exchange equ iva lent of DH 20,000 for imported spare parts, consumer goods, and samples w i th payment effected by resident ind i- v idua ls or legal entities. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for impor ts must be taken out w i th insurance companies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insu r- ance policies may be unde rw r i t ten abroad. This group includes ex terna l ly funded im- ports, if the f inanc ing terms inc lude foreign insurance, capital goods and equ ipment under turnkey contracts, or du ly authorized inves tment programs, in crude o i l, gas, cattle, and wood. Imports are subject to a d isemba rka t ion inspection. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Certain items are subject to m i n im um import prices (reference prices) for a n t i d um p i ng or safeguarding purposes. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Impor ts of arms and explosives, as well as secondhand c lo th ing and used tires, require licenses. Imports of products that affect pub l ic security, morale, and hea l th may be prohibited. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, w i th rates rang ing from 2.5% to 35% for indus t r ial goods; these ta r i f fs can range up to 300% on certain ag r icu l tu ral products ( tar iff equ iva len ts). In add i t ion, a 15% levy is applied to imports. However, certain consumer goods not produced in Morocco are exempt from th is levy and are subject to a customs du ty of 10% only. Imports used for the produc t ion of exports are exempt from customs duties and other restrictions. No. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 616 MOROCCO Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance im- ports of goods and raw materials of goods for export. Foreign exchange must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, th is date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, inc lud ing ind iv idua ls and corporations, must repatriate fore ign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial c la ims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts on ly if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Exporters are authorized to obtain up to 20% of export earnings in convertible d irham or foreign exchange accounts. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection No. Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of f lou r, charcoal, certain an ima l s, p lan ts, and archaeological items are subject to au thor iza t ion. A 1% qua l i ty control tax is levied on exports of foods tuffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments F re igh t / insu rance Authorized banks are permitted to make paymen ts and settle expenses inc iden tal to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents and for travel and study abroad w i thout au thor iza t ion from the FEO. Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in d i rhams the expenses incurred by the ir foreign managers and nonresident foreigners work ing for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreign a ir l ines operating in Morocco may transfer, w i thout prior authorization from the FEO, any surp lus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air fre igh t. Transfers w i th respect to sea and road transpor ta t ion may be made directly to author- ized banks. There are no controls on paymen ts for un load ing and storage costs, adm in i s t ra t ive expenses, subscriptions and membership fees, or on the rem i t tances of prof i ts and d iv idends. All other paymen ts and transfers are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests, except for foreign workers' wages and pensions. On June 3, 1997, transfers by deep-sea f i sh ing companies for techn ical insu rance and boat management costs were liberalized. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n .a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits On October 20, 1997, the max imum a l lowance for tourist t ravel was increased to the equ iva lent of DH 10,000 from DH 5,000 a person a year. This a l lowance may be in- creased by DH 3,000 for a m inor child on the passport of the benef ic iary parent and accompanying said parent at the t ime of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad upon the ir re turn to the ir home coun- t ry, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on rem i t tances w i t h in the p rev ious 12 mon ths up to a l im it of DH 20,000. Res iden ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty who w ish to travel abroad may be granted the fore ign exchange equ iva lent of all the ir ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 617 sav ings from income. Bus iness travel by exporters of goods and services may be fi- nanced w i thout restriction by deb i t ing convertible export promotion accounts or for- eign currency accounts ma in ta ined w i th Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, w i th a daily l im it of DH 2,000. Banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small- and medium-size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by ind i- v idua ls not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, bus iness travel allow- ances cannot be added to allowances for tour ist trave l. The foreign exchange office grants exemptions as needed. App roval by the M in i s t ry of Hea l th is required. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad up to the equ iva lent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on patients' behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical in s t i tu t ions concerned. School fees to fore ign academic in s t i tu t ion s, upon subm iss ion of documen tary evi- dence may be transferred w i thout l im i t; however, the fo l low ing l im i ts app ly: (1) an annual ins ta l la t ion allowance equ iva lent to DH 10,000 and the same amount for a person accompany ing a m inor student leaving Morocco for the f i rst time; and (2) an allowance for l iv ing expenses amoun t ing to the equ iva lent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscho larsh ip holders and DH 4,000 a mon th for scholarship holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guard ian has submitted a lease and a certificate of residence or any other equ iva lent document. The l im it is DH 2,000 a mon th for foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of h igher education for a child s tudy ing abroad. Applications for add i t ional amoun ts must be referred to the FEO for approval, wh ich is granted on proof of need. Effec t ive October 27, 1997, foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in e i ther the p r iva te or pub l ic sector or engaged in professions in indu s t ry, commerce, and agricul- ture may t rans fer all the ir savings from income. The previous l im it was 50% of income. Commercial banks are au thor ized to transfer retirement pensions provided by pub l ic and pr iva te agencies in favor of retirees res id ing abroad permanen t ly. Foreign retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans may transfer all of the ir income. They may also free ly contribute to the ir retirement or social security funds in the ir coun t ry of o r ig in. Yes. Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pensions Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Transfers are approved upon presentation of documen tary evidence. Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, inc lud ing ind iv idu a ls and corporations, must repa- triate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all the ir noncommercial claims and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 MOROCCO surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surrender w i th in one month all foreign exchange in their pos- session, but on departure from Morocco, they may export w i thout restriction foreign banknotes obtained by debiting their accounts in convertible d i rhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15% of foreign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 mon ths before to Moroccan banks up to a l im it of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan residents l iv ing abroad may take advantage of the same DH 10,000 tour ist allocation that applies to residents. Resident travelers may br ing in foreign banknotes in any amoun t, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them w i th in 30 days of the ir re turn to Morocco. Exporters of services are required to obtain up to 20% of the ir export earnings in amoun ts denominated in foreign currency or convertible d i rhams. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issuance of capital market securities by nonresidents is prohibited. There are, however, no restrictions on the sale of Moroccan securities by nonresidents. Proceeds from such sales may also be freely transferred, provided that the relevant purchases are financed by foreign exchange inf lows or any comparable means. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty are free to purchase securities abroad or, gene ra l ly speaking, to constitute assets abroad, provided that these purchases are f inanced from the ir foreign exchange ho ld ings or holdings of convertible d i rhams. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents When the purchase of such ins t rumen ts or securities is financed by a foreign exchange in f low or by the proceeds of the sale of other securities p rev ious ly purchased th rough the surrender of foreign exchange, the transfer of d is inves tment proceeds, in c lud ing capital gains, and of income generated by such inves tment is free. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of these ins trumen ts by nonresidents is proh ib i ted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the prior au thor iza t ion of the FEO, wh i ch is granted under certain cond i t ions. On the other hand, residents of foreign na t iona l i ty are free to engage in operations abroad financed w i th their foreign exchange ho ld ings. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On co l lec t ive inve s tment securities Same regulations app ly as for money market in s t rumen t s. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 619 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts These in s t rumen ts have not been developed in Morocco. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Res iden ts of Moroccan na t iona l i ty may subscribe to such in s t rum en ts abroad on ly w i th the pr ior app roval of the FEO. On Janua ry 24, 1997, au thor ized in termed iar ies were allowed to engage in foreign exchange b u y i ng and se l l ing operations w i th for- eign banks u s ing fore ign currency cash. Sale or issue abroad by re s iden ts The issue abroad of these in s t rum en ts by Moroccan residents is subject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the FEO. Controls on credit operations Comme rc ial credits By residents to nonresidents F in an c i al credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gua ran tees, sure t ies, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d irect inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Me rchand ise exporters are free to grant commercial credits to nonres iden ts for up to 150 days; longer terms may be granted w i th the approval of the FEO, as required for bus iness purposes. The g r an t ing of f i n a n c i al loans by residents to non res iden ts is subject to the app roval cf the FEO. F inanc ial credits are l im i t ed to foreign loans for f in an c ing inve s tment operations or foreign trade. Moroccan banks may issue or accept in favor of residents sureties issued on beha lf of nonres iden ts in support of the pa r t ic ipa t ion of said nonres iden ts in pub l ic or p r iva te con trac t ing, the s u p p l y i ng of goods or services, the re fund of down paymen ts, and the sub s t i tu t ion of guaran tee w i thho ld ing s. S im i la r ly, they may issue sureties on beha lf of nonresidents in support of tax l iab i l i t ies or f in an c i al obligations. A coun terguaran tee f rom a foreign bank is requ ired for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on beha lf of nonres iden ts. When c la ims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on beha lf of nonres iden ts, the re levant amoun ts must be repatriated to Morocco. Provisions of guaran tees are a l lowed on the cond i t ion that they are contracted th rough resident Moroccan bank s. Ou twa rd direct inve s tmen ts are subject to pr ior approval of the FEO, but res iden ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty are free to inve st abroad. There are no res tr ic t ions on t ran s fe rs made d irec t ly w i th the b ank ing sys tem of the proceeds of the l iqu id a t ion or sale of fore ign i n v e s tm e n t, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal ga ins. For the l iqu id a t ion of any inve s tment not f a l l ing und er the conv e r t ib i l i ty a r rangemen ts, the re levant proceeds mu st be deposited in a conve r t ib le t ime deposit account denom i- nated in d i rham s. Funds placed the re in may be t rans fe r red over a f ive -year period in equal annu i t i e s. Controls on real estate transactions These operations are subject to the inve s tment regime. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Foreign na t iona ls cannot pu rchase properties outside of u rban l im i t s. Controls on personal capital movements Loans These opera t ions are subject to FEO au tho r iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 620 MOROCCO G if ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets G if ts and endowments are subject to prior FEO authorization. However, inheritance transfers may be effected freely if the acquisition of the inherited property is financed w i th foreign exchange. These operations are subject to FEO au thor iza t ion. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Commercial banks can on ly borrow abroad to finance foreign trade or inves tment operations. The granting of loans abroad by Moroccan banks is subject to approval by the Ex- change Office. However, banks may use cash held in foreign exchange accounts (by foreign na t iona ls, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) for gran t ing buye r 's credits to foreign, nonresident customers of Moroccan exporters. Moroccan banks may grant foreign exchange loans to residents for the f inanc ing of foreign trade operations and inves tmen t, w i th in the l im i ts of the ir respective foreign exchange positions, as authorized by the rules of the foreign exchange market. Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Convertible d irham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve re- quirements. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken in to account for the ca lcu la t ion of l iqu id asset requ iremen ts. D i f fe ren t ial t rea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. These operations are subject to au thor iza t ion by the FEO and the monetary au thor i t ies. In banks by nonresidents These operations are subject to au thor iza t ion by the monetary au tho r i t ies. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 20% of net equ i ty (7% for the position in any single currency). Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io invested abroad n.a. Prior approval by the FEO is required for po r t fo l io inves tment abroad. Imports and import payments November 4. The m a x im um rate for advance paymen ts on impo r ts of cap i tal goods was raised to a m a x im um of 40% of the f.o.b. va lue of the imports. Advance payment Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 621 was limited to the foreign exchange equ iva lent of DH 20,000 for imported spare parts, consumer goods, and samples w i th payment effected by resident ind iv idu a ls or legal entities. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers June 3. Transfers by deep-sea f i sh ing companies for technical insurance and boat management costs were liberalized. October 20. The tour ist allowance was increased to DH 10,000 a person a year. October 27. Foreign residents were permitted to transfer abroad all of the ir sav ings from income. Capital transactions Controls on de r iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts January 24. Au tho r ized intermediaries were authorized to engage in foreign exchange buy ing and selling operations w i th foreign banks u s ing foreign currency cash. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The cu r rency of Mozamb ique is the Mozamb ican metical (p lu r al me t ica is). Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing The external va lue of the metical is determined by supp ly and demand in the exchange marke t, where the Bank of Mozamb ique (BM), the commercial banks, and foreign exchange bureaus pa r t ic ipa te. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangemen ts Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Mo z amb ique is a member of the COMESA. Exchange con trol au tho r i t ies The BM is respons ib le for fore ign exchange po l icy and adm in i s t e rs its con tro l. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payment arrears P r iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n .a. n.a. Con tro ls on domes t ic owne r sh ip and/or trade Residents other th an monetary au thor i t ies are perm i t ted to ho ld gold for n um i sm a t ic purposes or as j ew e l ry or o rnamen ts. Con t ro ls on ex te rnal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On expor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency On im p o r ts Domestic currency The exportation of gold is governed by special regulations, wh i le the same regu la t ions that app ly to other import items are applicable to the impo r ta t ion of nonmone tary gold. Exports of domestic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the amount they declared on en t ry. Impo r ts of domes t ic currency are subject to a l im it of Mt 500,000, provided they have been p r ev iou s ly exported. 622 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 623 Foreign currency Impor ts of foreign currenc ies in excess of the equ iva lent of $5,000 must be declared. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. BM approval is required to ma in ta in these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts may be opened w i th funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from emp loyment and technical assistance contracts approved by the appropriate ins t i- tu t ion s; transfers of such funds abroad are not permitted. Conve r t ib le in to fore ign currency No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Con f i rma t ion of the existence of su f f ic ient funds in the bank is required. Advance payment requ i rement Documentary proof of the arr ival of goods has to be presented. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Presh ipment inspection Inspection is required for all imports in excess of $2,500, w i th the exception of per- ishable commodities and imports for the personal needs of diplomats. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses A negative product l ist exists for imports financed by donors' or a creditor's fund s. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs and other agencies review import requests. Some import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. All imports exceeding the equivalent of $500 are subject to registration by the M in is- try of Indus t ry, Commerce, and Tourism (MICT). Registration certificates specifying, among other th ing s, the place of embarkation and d isembarka t ion of the goods, the amount and currency of paymen t, and the source of f inanc ing are issued on demand. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 MOZAMBIQUE Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts All export proceeds, except in cases authorized by the BM, must be collected th rough the commercial banks. The surrender requirement was eliminated on January 1, 1997. Companies that export more than 85% of their production qua l i fy for the status of free trade zone. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to registration w i th the MICT. n.a. Quotas are ma in ta ined on exports of sugar to the Un i ted States. The general export du ty of 0.5% was suspended for f ive years on December 31, 1994. There is, however, a du ty of 14% on exports of raw cashews. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest paymen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval Exchange bureaus are au thor ized to sell foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 to ind iv idua ls to pay expenses associated w i th trave l, s tudy, or medical treat- ment abroad, as well as for f i lm rental, expenses for fairs and exh ib i t ions, con tr ibu- tions to in terna t ional organizations, and subscriptions to pub l ica t ions. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of $5,000 for the payment of all types of inv is ib le transactions and current transfers, except for prof i ts and d iv idends from inves tmen t. Operations exceeding the l im i ts and those re la t ing to profits and d iv idends are subject to prior approval of the BM. Payments for inv i s ib les related to authorized impor ts are not restricted. Yes. n.a. n.a. Remittances of p ro f i ts and d iv idends from foreign direct inves tment may be made in accordance w i th the specific project au tho r iza t ion and are subject to l icens ing by the BM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 625 Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. n.a. Foreign experts work ing in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of the ir salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Earnings from gambling are fu l ly transferrable, provided that they are confirmed by the casinos, in accordance w i th a special permanent authorization granted to the casi- nos by the BM. Credit card use abroad Credit cards are not issued in Mozambique. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifically, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obligated to remit 60% of the ir earnings through the BM and to convert them into meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments BM approval is required for purchases or sales abroad by residents of capital and money market ins t rumen ts in excess of $5,000. There is no written regulation for the purchase, sale, or issue of these ins trumen ts locally by nonresidents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments BM approval is required for purchases or sales abroad by residents of derivatives and other ins trumen ts in excess of $5,000. Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no wr i t ten regu la t ion. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There is no w r i t ten regu la t ion. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Pub l ic and p r iva te enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign bor- row ing must be registered w i th the BM. Borrowing by the government must be ob- tained on concessionary terms. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate the ir in i t ial capital. The incen- tives for foreign inves tmen ts include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign inves tment proposals are processed by the Foreign Inve s tment Promotion Center. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 MOZAMBIQUE Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents are prohibited from purchas ing real estate and may only contract leasing and concessions. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G i f ts, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Bo r row ing abroad Prior approval is not required, but bo r row ing must be registered. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commerc ial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Yes. n .a. D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by non res iden ts Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents On February 28, 1997, reserve requ iremen ts were extended to foreign currency deposits. Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. n .a. n.a. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts L im i ts are set in percent of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non res iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition Prior BM approval is required. Yes. n.a. Changes During 1997 Exports and export proceeds January 1. The surrender requirement was abolished. Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to commercial banks and o ther credit in s t i tu t ions February 28. Reserve requirements were extended to foreign currency deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of M y a nm ar is the My anm ar kya t. In add i t ion to the o f f ic ial exchange rate, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are is- sued by the Cen tral Bank of My anm ar (CBM) in denom ina t ions of 1, 5, 10, and 20 u n i t s, and exchangeable w i th six hard currencies or w i th acceptable traveler's checks. FECs are w ide ly used and serve the needs of v is i tors and investors in Myanma r. FECs are ava i lab le for ky a ts at the market-determined rate at the exchange centers in Yan- gon. In 1997, seven new exchange centers were opened in Yangon and 19 in other cities. Holders of FECs may deposit them in to their foreign exchange accounts. An uno f f i c i al para l lel market for foreign exchange also exists. The My anm ar kyat is o f f i c i a l ly pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. My anm ar applies margins of 2% to spot exchange transac t ions, based on the fixed kya t -SDR rate. The buy ing and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, French franc, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanmar Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB), are determined on the basis of the da i ly ca lcu la t ions of the va lue of these currenc ies aga inst the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member coun tr ies of the ACU (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, Ind ian rupee, I ran ian r ia l, Nepalese rupee, Pak is tan rupee, and Sri Lanka rupee). The buy ing and se l l ing rates for the Belgian f ranc, Hong Kong do l la r, I ta l ian l i ra, Ma lay s ian r ingg i t, Ne ther lands gu i l- der, and Singapore do l lar are de term ined da i ly on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore marke t, and the buy ing and se l l ing rates for other currencies are based on the appropr ia te cross rates pub l ished in The Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. On March 9, 1998, foreign exchange licenses of pr iva te banks were w i t h d r aw n. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangemen ts C lear ing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Se t t lemen ts w i th member countries of the ACU are made in ACU dollars th rough the ACU mechan ism. Myanmar is a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts B i la te ral trade arrangemen ts w i th ne ighbo r ing coun tr ies exist. These arrangements do not prov ide for the ex tens ion of credit. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Exchange control is adm in is te red by the CBM in accordance w i th ins t ruc t ions from the M in i s t ry of Finance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Depu ty Pr ime M i n i s t er allocates fore ign exchange for the pub l ic sector. 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 628 MYANMAR International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Arrears are maintained w i th respect to debt-service payments of the central government. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal use may be brought in to Myanma r, subject to customs declaration at the port of arri- val. Personal jewe lry of a prescribed va lue is permitted to be taken out, subject to the condition that the jewe l ry w i ll be brought back into the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewe l ry that was declared to customs when it was brought in to Myanmar. Gold bu l l ion may not be imported from any source. The exportation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Residents who have been granted an off ic ial permit to travel abroad are allowed to buy $500 from the MFTB and the My anm ar Inves tment and Commercial Bank (MICB) on presentation of $500 worth of FECs or the equ iva lent from the ir own foreign currency accounts. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar w i t h in six months of arr iv ing may take out any balance of foreign currency they brought in w i th them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the FECs purchased in excess of the m i n im um required purchase of $300. The importation of Myanmar currency is. prohibited. Travelers may bring in up to $2,000 or its equ iva lent w i thout any declaration. Tourists arr iv ing in Myanmar are required to purchase FECs equ iva lent to a m i n im um va lue of $300, but amounts in excess of th is m i n im um may be reconverted into foreign ex- change on departure. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Foreign currency accounts of na t ional f i rms may be kept w i th private domestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange transac t ions. Accounts may be opened in U .S. dollars on ly by Myanmar na t iona ls who earn fore ign exchange. Account holders are allowed to import under import licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of letters of credit or on a collection basis. W i th prior app rova l, account holders may use funds from the ir accounts to pu rchase air tickets for fam i ly v is i ts abroad and to make paymen ts for personal impo r ts, for exam ina t ion fees for the ir ch i ld ren, and for medical trea tment abroad. Transfers of funds between accounts are perm i t ted. Held abroad Prior approval is required to ma in ta in these accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Conversion is perm i t ted on ly for payment of o f f i c i al expenses. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 629 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of diplomatic missions and international organizations and their home-based personnel may be kept w i th the MFTB only. Other foreign residents may open foreign currency accounts w i th any bank authorized to deal in foreign ex- change. Prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts All debits and credits to these accounts require prior au tho r iza t ion. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ irement Advance impo rt deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures N eg a t ive l i st Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments An import program for the pub l ic sector is prepared annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up jo in t ly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the MFR. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through private domestic banks permitted to conduct foreign exchange business. State economic en- terprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the MFTB, w i th in the approved for- eign exchange budget, after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds of border exports. Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make un l im i ted payments for personal imports w i th the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under official permits who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts may make payments on the ir personal imports out of the ir accumulated savings of legitimate funds. The State Bank requires a 100% advance paymen t, wh i le private bank requirements vary according to the credit standing of the ir customer. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports are free from ta r i f fs, except for those imported f rom countries under UN em- bargo or w i th wh ich My anm ar has severed d ip loma t ic relations. W i th a few excep- t ions, pr iva te sector impor ts require import licenses for each transaction and are largely f inanced from the impo r te r 's foreign currency account. Un t il end-September 1997, import licenses could be obtained for priority items (List A), nonpriority items (List B), and "neutral" items. Since November 1997, only one type of import license has been issued, under wh ich 60% is allocated to essential goods and the remainder to nonessential goods. An importer wishing to import items from List B or neutral items is generally required to impo rt goods on List A at a va lue equ iva lent to 50% and 25% of the va lue of goods on List B and of neu t ral items, respectively. Private importers mu st register at the MOC and renew their licenses annu a l ly. Border imports requ ire permits. Exporters of ag r icu l tu ra l, forestry, and fisheries products are encouraged to impo rt up to the e q u i v a l e nt of 25% of the export va lue of selected items that w i ll con- t r ibu te to the p roduc t ion in these sectors. Cer ta in i tems, such as o p i um and other narco t ics, p l ay ing cards, and gold and s i lver b u l l i o n, may not be impor ted f rom any source. Jo int ven tu res w i th p r iva te interests may be granted open general licenses on a case- by-case basis and are exempt from List A requirements. State economic enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 MYANMAR Import taxes and/or tariffs may import goods for the ir own use and for resale w i th open general licenses, whereas government departments may import on ly for the ir own use. Tariff rates range from zero to 40%. Agricultural implements, raw materials, and other essential imports are taxed at low rates, wh i le the highest rates are applied to impor ts of luxu ry goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be f u l ly repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes No. No. Yes. n.a. Yes. Export trade may be conducted w i th any country w i thout restriction, except those under UN embargo or w i th wh ich Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consump t ion. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. State enterprises have a monopoly on the exportation of rice, teak, petro- leum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. Rice is exported by the Myanmar Ag r icu l tu ral Produce Trading through the Myanmar Expo r t - Impo rt Services; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export a number of beans and pulses, rattan, f lour, and cut flowers under va l id export perm i ts issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain products, i n c l u d i ng rice, teak, rubber, pe tro leum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnu ts, is not perm i t ted. Exc lud ing goods under the exemption list, commercial taxes are levied on all exports at 5%, provided the proceeds are received in foreign currency. A specific du ty of K 10 per metric ton is levied on all varieties of rice. Customs duties are levied on rice, bam- boo, cereal, raw hides, and cakes. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Fre igh t / insurance All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to approval and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Remittances against FECs are permitted up to $50,000 a mon th. In fo rma t ion on ind ica t ive l im i ts is not ava i lab le for most paymen t s. Rem i t tances of insurance p rem ium paymen ts other than for My anm ar Insu rance are not permitted. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Pens ions Quantitative limits F am i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Quantitative limits MYANMAR 631 Balances of sa lary and l aw f ul income earned th at rema in after payment of taxes and deduction of l i v i ng expenses of the worker and his or her f am i ly may be transferred abroad th rough a bank w i th the app roval of the CBM. Rem i t tance to re t ired gove rnment employees is pe rm i t ted on ly if the persons con- cerned were nonn a t ion a ls th roughout the ir term of service and are now residing in the ir n a t i ve coun t r ies. F am i ly rem i t tances a re pe rm i t ted on ly for fore ign techn ic ians emp loyed under con tract by the gove rnmen t; the l im it is one -ha lf of the net sa lary if the spouse is l i v i ng abroad and one - th i rd of the net sa lary if the spouse is l i v i ng in My anm a r. Cred it card use abroad n .a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Un less exchange control au tho r i t i es grant a special wa ive r, 10% of proceeds mu st be paid as income tax. M y a nm ar na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad w i th perm iss ion f rom the government are requ ired to pay an income tax at the rate of 10% of the ir gross earn- ings in foreign exchange. My anm ar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad under the ir own arrangemen ts must pay as income tax 10% of the ir gross earn ings. My anm ar na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad in UN organ iza t ions are not re- qu ired to pay income tax. My anm ar na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad in p r iva te o rgan iza t ions are required to t rans fer to M y a nm ar as tax 10% of the ir gross ea rn ings in fore ign ex- change th rough embassies in the ir coun t ry of residence. Restrictions on use of funds Use is subject to exchange con trol app rov a l. Capital Transactions Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sure t ies, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd d i rect inve s tment Yes. Yes. Yes. n .a. The M y a nm ar Inv e s tm ent Comm iss ion may accept proposals for inve s tment from fore igners for f u ll ow n e r s h ip and under jo int ven tu re, w i th the share of fore ign cap i tal representing at least 35% of the total cap i ta l. To fac i l i ta te and promote fore ign inv e s t- ment, the commission may g rant exemption from customs du t ies and other in t e rn al taxes on m a ch in e ry and e q u i pm e nt impor ted d u r i ng cons t ruc t ion of the project, spare par ts used in bu s ine s s, and raw ma te r ia ls impor ted for the f i r st three years of com- mercial p roduc t ion, as we ll as exemp t ion from the income tax for a period of up to three consecu t ive years, in c lud ing the year when p roduc t ion of goods and services began, or for longer than th ree years, depend ing upon the p ro f i tab i l i ty of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 632 MYANMAR Controls on liquidation of direct investment enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign investment are specified in a de- tailed pos i t ive list. The government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit w i ll not be nationalized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. Repa- triation of capital and profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed fees. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement March 9. Foreign exchange licenses of private banks were w i thd rawn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nam ib ia is the Nam ib ia dollar. The South A f r ican rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Nam ib ia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Nam ib ia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South Afr ican rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange market in Nam ib ia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Afr ica. No. No. Au thor ized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, inc lud ing forward cover, w i th residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transac t ions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the ou ts tand ing comm i tmen ts and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresi- dents, subject to certain l im i ta t ions. Gold m in ing companies and houses may sell for- ward anticipated receipts of their fu tu re gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. do l lars on ly and is ava i lab le to authorized dealers for ma tur i t ies not exceeding 12 months at a time in the fo rm of swap transactions invo lv ing Nam ib ia dollars, South A f r ican rand, and U.S. dollars w i th a marg in based on the interest rate d i f fe ren t ial between the two currencies. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Special forward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import f inanc ing. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. N am ib ia is part of the CM A, and therefore no restrictions are applied to paymen ts w i t h in the CMA. The Bank of N am ib ia (BON) has delegated several powers to authorized dealers who assist it in adm in i s te r ing exchange control. Where an authorized dealer cannot ap- prove a transaction in terms of the Exchange Control Ru l ings, an application is lodged w i th the BON. The norms applied by the BON in scru t in iz ing applications are subject to policy gu ide l ines es tab l ished w i t h in the CMA. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The exchange control regu la t ions p roh ib it the purchase and sale, both domes t ica l ly and abroad, of u nw r o u g ht gold by N am ib i an residents w i t h o ut the specific au tho r i ty of the BON. All such requests are considered on merit. 633 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 634 NAMIBIA Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Con tro ls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts An i n d i v i d u al may export up to N$2,000. Export of foreign currency not authorized in terms of exchange control ru l ings re- qu ires pr ior BON app rova l. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may br ing in a total of N$2,000 in N am ib i an banknotes or R 500 in South Afr ican banknotes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the impor ta t ion of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaz i land. Importation of foreign currency by nonresidents of the CMA countries is unres tr ic ted. However, Nam ib ian residents are only allowed to import in to N am ib ia the res idual balance of foreign cu r rency in i t i a l ly exported. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Yes. Foreign currency accoun ts at local banks are p roh ib i ted. These accounts are permitted, pa r t icu la r ly for import and export concerns. However, approval is required. Paymen ts in foreign currency may be effected from resident accounts, provided the transac t ion is covered under the Exchange Control Ru l ings or where prior approval has been ob ta ined in respect thereof. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Only export-processing zones (EPZ) customer fore ign currency accounts are a l lowed. These accounts are held offshore by a local authorized dealer and are set up to fac i l i- tate the foreign currency d isbursemen ts of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must conform to normal bank ing practices and must be carried out w i th the f u ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. Approval is required to open these accounts. The regu la t ions that app ly to these accounts in South A f r ica also app ly in N am ib i a. EPZ nonres ident accounts are a l lowed. These are N am i b ia do l lar accounts, funded w i th foreign currency and used for the normal operational requirements and expendi- tures of EPZ enterprises and to fac i l i ta te local inves tmen ts. Balances rema in ing in these accounts are freely convertible and may be remitted abroad. Approval is\required to open these accounts. Conve r t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts There are em ig rant blocked accounts in rand. The regulations app ly ing to these ac- coun ts in South A f r i ca also app ly in Nam ib ia. On Ap r il 21, 1997, a l im it of N$ 100,000 a year on releases from these accounts in respect to g if ts and dona t ions to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 635 th i rd -pa r ty residents in N am ib ia was set. Releases may be allowed of up to N$75,000 a f am i ly u n it for each ca lendar year at a rate of N$3,000 a day for each adult and N $l ,500 a day for each ch i ld under 12 years of age to cover the ir l iv ing expenses w h i le v i s i t i ng N am ib i a. Any unused balance is to be recredited to a re la t ive 's blocked account on depa r tu re from Nam ib ia. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Adv an ce payment r equ i r em ent Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Advance p aym ent for the impo r ta t ion of capital goods is allowed fo l low ing an app l i- cation to the BON. Au thor ized dealers may au thor ize "cash w i th order" advance pay- men ts and approve up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods. Documen ta t ion c o n f i rm i ng receipts of the imported articles into Nam ib ia, (e.g., b i ll of en t ry, local post receipts) is requ ired. Letters of credit They can be established by authorized dealers locally. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist There are no res tr ic t ions on imports or ig ina t ing in any country of the SACU. Imports from coun tr ies outside the SACU are usua l ly licensed in con fo rm i ty w i th South Af- r ica 's import regulations. Permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are va l id for imports from any coun try ou ts ide the SACU. At present, about 90% of impor ts require a pe rm i t. N am ib ia has the r ight to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantita- t ive restrictions) from coun tr ies outside the SACU and, under certain conditions, from coun tr ies w i t h in the SACU. Licenses w i th quo tas n .a. Import taxes and/or tariffs A general sales tax of 8% is levied on all impor ts in add i t ion to a sales du ty between zero and 15%, depend ing on the type of commod i ty. Taxes collected th rough the exchange sys tem State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are no rma l ly required to be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts All export proceeds are no rma l ly required to be surrendered w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipment of goods or w i t h in 30 days of the date of accrual. Corporate entities that operate in the export field and also import goods from abroad are allowed to offset the cost of impo r ts aga inst the proceeds of exports, provided the set-off takes place w i th in 30 days. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports from N am ib ia should be accompanied by an export declaration, and upon receipt of export proceeds loca l ly, a declaration of in f low of foreign currency. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Yes. Yes. All exports, except to SACU member countries, require a license. Pe rm i ts are requ ired for exports of goods in short supp ly to non-SACU countries. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 NAMIBIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized dealers may approve trade-related inv is ib le payments w i thout limitation and other inv is ib le payments up to established l im i ts. Larger amoun ts may be granted on presentation of documentary proof of need. On Apr il 21, 1997, v ir tua l ly all remain- ing controls on current account transactions were liberalized, except in cases where the l im i ts were retained to make the remaining controls on capital ou tf lows effective. No prior approval is required, but if a local company is contracting any loans via a local source, an application should be made to the BON. The introduction and repayment of foreign loans require BON approval. On April 22, 1997, allowances were increased, and the previous d is t inc t ions between neighboring and other countries were abolished. Residents may obtain up to N$80,000 for a person 12 years or older and N$25,000 for a child under the age of 12 years each calendar year. Residents traveling to destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take the foreign exchange allowance in any form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amoun ts in excess of the indicative l im i ts are approved when the applicant provides documents in support of a bona f ide request. S tudy abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Prior approval Yes. Since Ap r il 22, 1997, the annual allowance is N$80,000 for a student or N$ 160,000 for a student accompanied by a nons tudent spouse. Amoun ts in excess of the ind ica t ive l im i ts are approved when the applicant provides documents in support of a bona fide request. Yes. Contract workers may t rans fer two- th irds of the ir m o n t h ly salary. Applications are considered on the merits of the pa r t icu lar case. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Family ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits No rma l ly, Nam ib ians are discouraged from pa r t ic ipa t ing in in te rna t ional lotteries. Most requests in th is regard are declined. n.a. Yes. Maintenance transfers are l im i ted to N$2,000 a mon th for a recipient f am i ly u n i t. A l i- mony paymen ts are not limited. Depar t ing residents are required to complete the form MP928 prior to depar ture. Limits are in accordance w i th prescribed travel allowances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 637 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds Prior BON approval should be obtained for use of such funds outside the CMA. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Inwa rd transfers of cap i tal from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific develop- ment projects or for the expansion of ex is t ing projects owned or controlled by resi- dents are considered on the ir own merits. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equ i ty inves tmen ts by nonresidents are freely transferable. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is required for the acqu is i t ion of money market ins trumen ts out- side the CMA. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n .a. Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is required for the acquisition of collective investment securities outside the CMA. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts n.a. n .a. Purchase abroad by residents Nam ib ian residents shou ld obtain prior BON approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commerc ial credits Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to specific approval from the BON, wh ich is generally given for borrowing abroad w i th a ma tu r i ty of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowings or consumer credit. Au thor ized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the f inanc ing of N am ib i a 's foreign trade and other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 NAMIBIA By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents A who l ly nonresident-owned company may borrow 100% of shareholder equ i ty lo- cally. On Ap r il 21, 1997, nonresident-owned local companies' access to domestic credit was increased, i.e., on ly companies that are 50% or more foreign owned w i ll be subject to exchange controls. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Inward direct inv e s tm ent Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. App l ica t ions by residents to retain funds in, or t rans fer them to, coun tr ies ou ts ide the CMA for bona f ide long-term inves tmen ts in specific deve lopment projects or for the expans ion of ex is t ing projects owned or con tro l led by residents are considered on the ir own mer i ts. On Ap r il 21, 1997, the l im it on foreign inve s tment was increased to N$30 m i l l ion for countries other than SADC members, and a new fac i l i ty of N$50 m i l l ion for inves tment in SADC member countries was established. Also, con- sideration was to be given to raising foreign borrow ings to f inance these inves tmen ts w i th recourse to, or guarantee from, Nam ib ia, imp ly ing that the local corporations' balance sheet may be used in negotiating such a f a c i l i ty. Approved foreign subsidiar- ies may expand activities abroad w i thout prior app rova l, provided such expansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by the emp loyment of prof i ts earned by the foreign subsidiary. Inwa rd transfers of cap i tal from non-CMA coun t r ies for equ i ty i n v e s tm e nt may be freely made. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Residents require prior approva l. To residents from nonresidents Residents requ ire prior approval for the in t roduc t ion of foreign loans. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and d i s t r ibu t ions from such estates due to nonresidents may be remitted up to N$500,000. Amoun ts due in excess of th is amount require prior BON approval. Residents must declare these amoun ts and repatriate them to N am i b i a. A l t e rn a t iv e ly, exemp t ion may be obtained from the BON for retention of such amoun ts abroad. Each app l ica t ion is considered on its own mer i t. If imm ig ran ts have fo rm a l ly declared the ir assets and l iab i l i t ies and have no cash re- sources ava i lab le w i th wh ich to pay the debt, the BON may consider requests for ex- emp t ion based on the merits of each case. Fam i l ies em igra t ing outside the CMA are granted the no rmal tou r ist a l lowance and are perm i t ted to rem it up to N$250,000-(N$ 125,000 for s ing le persons). Any ba lance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 639 exceeding th is l im it must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. The balance, inc lud ing earned income, may be transfered under prescribed cond i t ions. Immigrants are required to fu rn ish the exchange control authorities w i th a complete account of the ir foreign assets and l iab i l i t ies at the t ime of the ir a r r iva l. Any foreign assets they transfer to N am ib ia may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad w i t h in the f irst f ive years of the ir arr iva l. Au tho r ized dealers are genera l ly permitted to raise funds abroad in the ir own names for the f i n a n c i ng of N am i b i a 's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Prior approval is needed for lend ing not related to trade transac t ions. On Ap r il 1, 1997, nonresident-owned local compan ies' access to domestic credit was increased, i.e., on ly companies that are 50% or more foreign owned are to be subject to exchange controls. On Ap r il 22, 1997, perm iss ion was g iven for local f inanc ial assistance to be granted to nonresident-owned companies aga inst a nonresident guarantee, prov ided the amount made ava i lab le does not exceed the l im it ca lcu la ted in terms of the fo rmu la requ iremen ts. Yes. n.a. There is no d i s t inc t ion between resident and nonres iden t. The net open pos i t ion l im it is 15% of a bank 's share capital and unimpaired reserves. The m a x im um is 65% of the total assets of pens ion funds and in su rance companies. Inves tmen ts are allowed on ly by way of swaps. As of Ap r il 21, 1997, the amount of foreign currency transfers allowed was 10% of the total va lue of the local f u n d. Transfers abroad of up to 3% of the net in f low of funds du r ing the preceding year may be allowed. In add i t ion, 2% of the net in f low of funds du r ing a preceding year could be used for inves tment in the stock exchanges of SADC member countries, subject to the overall l im it of 10% of the total assets applicable to asset swaps. The de f in i t ion of in s t i tu t ion al inves tor was expanded to inc lude the un it t ru st man- agement company. In the past, on ly the fund itself qua l i f ied for asset swap transac t ions. The m i n im um is 35% of the total assets of pension f u n ds and insu rance compan ies. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Lend ing to non res iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on po r t fo l io inves ted loca l ly Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Changes During 1997 January 13. Ne ighbo r ing countries were redefined to in c lude M au r i t ius and Tanzan ia, in addition to Ango la, Bo tswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, M a l aw i, Mozamb ique, Zamb ia, and Z imbabwe. April 27. The allowed annual amount for release from a local blocked account w i th respect to g i f ts to th i rd -pa r ty residents in N am i b ia was increased to N$ 100,000 from N$50,000. Releases may be allowed up to N$75,000 a f am i ly a calendar year at a rate of N$3,000 a day for each adu lt and N$ 1,500 a day for each child under 12 years of age to cover the ir l i v i ng expenses w h i le v i s i t ing Nam ib ia. Any unused balance is to be recredited to a re la t ive's blocked account on departure from Nam ib ia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 640 NAMIBIA Imports and import payments April 21. Most of the quan t i ta t ive l im i ts on advance import payments were abolished, except for impor ta t ion of capital goods, wh ich is s t i ll restricted to 33.3% of its ex- factory cost. Exports and export proceeds April 21. The former seven-day surrender requirement was changed to 30 days. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on direct inves tment April 21. Nam ib ians traveling abroad were allowed a m a x im um of N$80,000 a person (from the previous l im it of N$60,000) and N$25,000 for a ch i ld under the age of 12 years, for each calendar year. The prev ious d is t inc t ion between neighboring and other countries was eliminated. Prev ious ly, the allowance for travel to ne ighbor ing countries (Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ma law i, Mozamb ique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) was restricted to N$20,000 an adu lt a calendar year. Nam ib- ian residents s tudy ing on a fu l l - t ime basis abroad may obtain an annual s tudy a l low- ance of N$80,000 a student or N$ 160,000 for a student accompanied by a nons tudent spouse. April 21. V i r tu a l ly all controls on current account transactions were abolished, except in cases where the l im i ts were retained to make the rema in ing controls on capital out- flows effective. April 21. The l im it on foreign inves tment by N am ib i an corporations was increased to N$30 m i l l ion for countries other than SADC members, and a new fac i l i ty of N$50 m i l l ion in respect of inves tment in SADC member countries was established. Also, consideration was to be given to raising foreign borrowings to f inance such investments w i th recourse to, or guarantee from, Nam ib ia, imp ly ing that the local corporations' balance sheets may be used in negotiating such a fac i l i ty. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions April 1. Nonresident-owned local companies' access to domestic credit was increased, i.e., only companies that are 50% or more foreign owned are to be subject to exchange controls. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ion al investors April 21. The foreign currency transfers allowed in 1996 were extended to 1997. Ac- co rd ing ly, transfers abroad of up to 3% of the net in f low of funds du r ing the preceding year were allowed. In addition, 2% of the net in f low of f u n ds du r ing a preceding year could be used for inves tment in the stock exchanges of SADC countries, s t i ll subject to the overall l im it of 10% of the total assets applicable to asset swaps. April 21. The de f in i t ion of in s t i tu t ion al inves tor was expanded to inc lude the u n it t rust management company. In the past, on ly the fund itself qua l i f ied for asset swap transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The reference rate of the dollar quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) is based on the average of the quoted rate of commercial banks. Exchange rates of other major currencies are quoted on the basis of overseas markets. Buy ing and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, w i th quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Conver t ib i l i ty between the Ind ian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Ne- pal. All current transactions w i th member countries of the ACU other than India must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in dollars. Other impor ts and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Ind ian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible cur- rencies. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Yes. Payments in convertible currencies may be made w i thout permission, subject to the procedures prescribed by the NRB. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank au thor ized dealers are licensed to accept foreign curren- cies on ly for the ir services to foreign nationals. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Persons who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an off ic ial source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. Foreign banknotes, other than Ind ian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents w i thout perm iss ion. Nonres iden ts may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they b r ing in. 641 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 On impo r ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted NEPAL I n d i an cu r rency may be b rought in on ly by Nepalese and Ind ian na t iona l s. Res iden ts and nonres iden ts may b r ing in fore ign bankno tes free ly, but must declare amoun ts exceeding the equ iva lent of $2,000. Resident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are e l ig ib le. Exporters are a l lowed to deposit up to 100% of export earn ings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese c i t izens earn ing foreign exchange from wo rk ing abroad (except in B h u t an and Ind ia) for more than three mon ths may open these accounts. Commerc ial banks may accept deposits denom ina ted in Aus t ra- l ian do l lars, Canad ian do l lars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Ne ther- lands gu i lde r s, pounds s ter l ing, Singapore do l lars, Sw iss francs, and U.S. do l lars and are free to de te rm ine the rate of in terest paid on deposits. Current accounts may be opened w i th a m i n im um equ iv a l ent to $500, and t ime deposits w i th a m i n im um equ iv a l ent to $3,000. Prior approval is requ ired. Held domestically He ld abroad Yes. n .a. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons, d ip loma t s, foreign na t iona ls wo rk ing in projects f inanced w i th for- eign a id funds under b i la te ral or mu l t i la te ral agreements w i th the governmen t, and nonres iden ts may open foreign currency accounts freely w i th Nepalese banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accoun ts may be m a in t a in ed in a ll specified conve r t ib le currenc ies, and balances on these accoun ts may be t rans fe r red abroad f ree ly. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Non re s iden ts who receive or b r ing in to Nepal foreign currencies that they convert in to Nepalese rupees and deposit w i th a Nepalese bank may reconvert them for transfer out of the coun t ry, subject to the pr ior approval of the NRB. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tar iffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Most impor ts are covered under OGLs. Silver is mos t ly impor ted by the NRB and sold to s i lver jewe le rs and hand ic ra f t -expo r t ing indus t r ies th rough the commercial banks. Impor ts of s i lver up to 150 k i log rams are allowed for those who have stayed abroad more th an one mon th and have an o f f ic ial source of foreign exchange. Impor ts of arms, amm u n i t i o n, wireless transm i t ters, precious metals, and j ew e l ry re- qu i re special pe rm iss ion from the governmen t. Yes. There are f ive t a r i ff rates (5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, and the 80% special rate for veh ic les ), w i th most goods subject to e i ther the 20% or the 40% rate. Nepalese citizens re tu rn ing f rom abroad who have spent at least 15 n igh ts out of the country are permitted to br ing in goods wor th Nrs 1,000 free of customs du t ies and sales taxes. Those citizens w i th ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 643 o f f ic ial sources of foreign exchange earnings and who have stayed abroad for one mon th or more are allowed additional imports w i thout o f f ic ial documentation. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Presh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses W i th quo tas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated w i t h in 180 days of receipt. Exporters are allowed to accept short paymen ts in export proceeds, if they do not exceed $500. Ap- proval of the NRB is required for amoun ts above the specified l im i t. Exporters may retain the export earnings on the ir foreign currency account w i th local banks. Exporters of ready-made garments are allowed to import fabrics from Ind ia in convertible currencies not to exceed 50% of the ir export earnings. Commercial banks may grant preexport credit of up to 70% of the f.o.b. va lue of products specified by the government to all ind iv idu a ls and in s t i tu t ions holding ir- revocable LCs opened or endorsed by foreign banks and acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a m a x im um of three months; th is period may be extended w i thout pena l ty under special circumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Exports to coun tr ies other than Ind ia are allowed on ly aga inst irrevocable LCs or ad- vance paymen ts by foreign banks. Reexportation to Ind ia of non-Nepalese goods and reexportation to any des t ina t ion of goods imported from Ind ia are proh ib i ted. Yes. Exports of items h av ing archaeological and religious va lue, old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials are proh ib i ted. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota that increases annua l ly by 6%. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most paymen ts and transfers are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Informa t ion on qu an t i t a t ive l im i ts for most paymen ts is not ava i lab le. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of d irect inve s tmen ts Prior approval Prior approval is required in the case of private sector loan amortization, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Paymen ts for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Prior approval The l im it ranges from $300 to $1,500, depending on destination. Yes. n .a. Prior approval of the government is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 644 NEPAL Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Credit card use abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can invest in equity shares up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities n.a. n.a. n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases can only be made for bonds denominated in Nepalese currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales can only be made for bonds denominated in local currency. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. n.a. On money market ins trumen ts In principle, participation by nonresidents is allowed, but so far no effective participa- tion has been recorded. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks can prov ide credit w i th the NRB 's p r ior app rova l. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks can provide credit w i th the NRB 's prior app rova l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non re s iden ts and on po r t fo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad Cu r r en cy -m a t ch ing regu la t ions on a s se t s / l iab i l i t ies compos i t ion NEPAL 645 n.a. Nepalese citizens, whether or not residing in Nepal, are not allowed to make any type of investment in foreign countries, except as specifically permitted by government notice. The exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and inves tmen ts abroad by any bank ing or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal. Investments require prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Indus t r ial Pro- motion Board. Foreign inves tment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense- related indus t r ies unless subs tan t ial transfers of technology are invo lved. Foreign in- vestors can hold 100% equ i ty in large- and medium-scale indus tr ies. Foreign security f i rms are permitted to fo rm jo int ventures w i th local state exchange members, but the ir ownersh ip is l im i ted to 40%. Approval from the NRB and the Indus tr ial Promotion Board is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. L im i ts apply to foreign government paper on ly. Commercial banks can invest their foreign currency reserves in government securities on ly. n.a. Exchange arrangement October 31. The exchange arrangement of Nepal was reclassified as that pegged to a single currency from that pegged to a currency composite. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of the Ne the r lands is the Ne the r lands gu i lde r. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Ne ther lands participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th th is agree- ment, the Ne ther lands ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Ne ther lands gu i lder and the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipan ts w i t h in ma rg ins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the cen tral rates expressed in ECUs. Under a special b i la teral agreement, the spot exchange rate of the Ne the r lands gu i lder and the deutsche mark is ma in ta ined w i t h in a f luc tua t ion band of ±2.25%. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not l im i ted as to de l ive ry period nor is an und e r ly ing trade transaction required. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In compliance w i th the relevant UN Security Council reso lu t ions, cer ta in res tr ic t ions are imposed on f inanc ial transactions w i th Iraq and L ibya. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 646 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures NETHERLANDS 647 Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. In compliance w i th re levant UN Security Council resolutions, funds belonging to Iraq and Libya are blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong SAR, Japan, and state trading countries (i.e., the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and V ie tnam ), as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, impo rt licenses are required for a limited number of products, ma in ly those of the agr icu l tura l, steel, and textile sectors. Impor ts of textiles or ig ina t ing in the Far East and in state trading countries. Imports from Angola and Iraq are prohibited. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to import levies. Common EU regulations are applied to most agr icu l tural and livestock products. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas Export taxes Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic charac- ter, for some ag r icu l tu ral products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 NETHERLANDS Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Rela- tions Act (1994). Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at off ic ial market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase off ic ia l ly listed securities abroad. Placement w i th residents of un l is ted foreign debentures denominated in guild- ers (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. No. No. No. No. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of pay- ment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents is free of license. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank the ir position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of the Ne ther lands An t i l les is the Netherlands An t i l lean guilder. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The Netherlands An t i l lean guilder is pegged to the dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The o f f ic ial selling rate is NA f. 1.82 per $1. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are set da i ly on the basis of rates of the dollar abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where required. The Department of Finance (DOF) issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may pro- vide foreign exchange for all current transactions w i thout prior approval of the CB. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Exportation is prohibited except for trave l ing purposes. Nonresidents may take w i th them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident ind iv idu a ls may hold these accounts w i thout a special license. He ld domes t ica l ly Yes. 649 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 Held abroad NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Transfers from a local bank account to foreign accounts are allowed up to N A f. 10,000 a quarter. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts Approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Imports w i th de l ive ry dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 mon ths must be reported to the CB. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Imported goods for wh ich there are locally produced substitutes are subject to ta r i f fs ranging from 25% to 90%. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curagao. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received w i th in 12 mon ths of sh ipmen t, the delay mu st be reported to the CB. No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most types of current inv i s ib le payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 651 P ro f i t /d iv id ends Prior approval Companies mu st subm it the ir annu al report to the CB for ver if ica t ion of the ac tual amount of p ro f i ts and d iv idends recorded before they may remit them. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Inve s tmen ts by residents in o f f i c i a l ly listed foreign securities (and in m u t u al funds whose shares are l is ted) are perm i t ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, pro- v ided that these paymen ts occur th rough a local exchange bank. Re inves tment of pro- ceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On c ap i t al ma rket securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market in s t rumen ts On co l lec t ive inv e s tm ent secur i t ies Controls on derivatives and other instruments Pu rchase lo c a l ly by non re s iden ts Sale or issue lo c a l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by res iden ts Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Credit operations require licenses, wh i ch are no rma l ly granted. Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guaran tees, sureties, and f i n a n c i al backup f a c i l i t i es Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d irect inv e s tm ent Inw a rd direct inve s tment Yes. Yes. Yes. Inves tmen ts are subject to control. Inves tmen ts require licenses, wh ich are no rm a l ly granted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by res iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Loans A license is required for these purchases. On ly shor t- term loans are pe rm i t ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 652 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Transfer of assets Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements A 3% reserve requirement is applied to the adjusted domestic debt of commercial banks. Add i t iona l ly, there are pruden t ial regulations concerning the extension of credits (the large exposure requirement). Liquid asset requirements No def ic it l iqu id i ty position is allowed. Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents CB approval is required for the acquisition of shares in other companies. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Authorized banks' overall positions must a lways be positive and in currencies consid- ered "freely usable." Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad n.a. L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad The limits are 60% for the f irst NA f. 10 m i l l ion, 50% for the next NA f. 10 million, and 40% for add i t ional amounts. L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition The limits are 40% for the f irst NA f. 10 million, 50% for the next NA f. 10 m i l l ion, and 60% for additional amounts. n.a. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws There is no securities law. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanc t ions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supp ly and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. New Zealand no t if ied the IMF on September 6, 1990, tha t, in compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in te rna t ional transactions w i th re- spect to Iraq, and s im i la r ly on September 30, 1992, w i th respect to the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) in compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Res tr ic t ions w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) have been suspended since December 1995, in cases where it is clear that the assets, money, and securities are not subject to any c la im or interest on the part of the successor states of the Former Socialist Federal R epub l ic of Yugoslavia other than Serbia/Montenegro. Since December 3, 1993, certain restric- tions on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for current in te rna t ional t ransac t ions pu rsuant to the UN Security Counc il resolutions have been imposed w i th respect to Libya. Yes. No. No. The F inanc ial Transac t ions Repor t ing Act requires that impo r ts and exports of bankno tes be reported. A cus toms documen ta t ion fo rm, required when en ter ing or leav ing the coun t ry, inc ludes a requ irement to declare amoun ts greater th an $NZ 10,000 or its equ iv a l en t. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 653 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 654 NEW ZEALAND Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products— pr imar i ly plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. The only tar iffs over 20% apply to motor vehicles and some motor vehicle parts, clothing, footwear, and carpeting. Most tariffs are ad valorem, but specific duties ap- ply to some products. Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SPARTECA, im- portb of qu a l i fy ing goods enter duty-free from Aus t ra l ia and SPARTECA countries. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are allocated tar iff preferences under the GSP. In addition, du ty-free access is given to most imports from 36 least-developed countries. No. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas W i th quo tas Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific re- quirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently restricted by quotas and other quantita- t ive restrictions imposed by its principal trading partners. For example, exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 655 lamb and butter to the EU and exports of beef and dairy products to the United States are subject to either quotas or vo lun ta ry export restraints. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Under the Overseas Inves tment Regulations, there are separate au thor iza t ion proce- dures for "nonland" and "land" investments, which app ly both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled f i rm s. Nonland investments invo lv ing the acquisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand company, and where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 m i l l ion or wh ich invo lve the purchase of property in excess of $NZ 10 m i l l ion used in carry ing on a business, are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enter- prises also need approval for inves tmen ts exceeding $NZ 10 m i l l ion in areas unrelated to that consented to o r ig ina l ly. However, since these investors were screened when they f irst invested, the procedure is s tra igh tforward. No. Yes. Foreign inves tment in certain types of land is subject to both a bona f ide investor test and a "national interest" test. Land acquisitions that require authorization relate to any land exceeding f ive hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 m i l- l ion, and is lands or land containing or ad jo in ing reserves, h is to r ic or heritage areas, and the foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectares. No. No. No. No. Imports and import payments July L Tariff rates were reduced. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 30, 1964. Currency The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan cordoba. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax A craw l ing peg system in wh ich the exchange rate is adjusted 1% a month is ma in- tained. The central government and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are free to under take pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange w i th the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN), and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions and exchange houses are permitted to carry out transactions w i th the p r iva te sector. There is no tax, but the CBN charges a commission of 1% on sales of foreign exchange. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Nicaragua is a member of the CACM. The CBN administers the exchange control system and a l lows au thor ized commerc ial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Pr iva te Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Payment arrears are ma in ta ined w i th members of the Paris C lub and non-Paris C lub countries. n.a. The Nicaraguan M in ing Ins t i tu te manages the coun t ry 's gold production. An au tho r i- zation from the CBN is required to operate as a gold exporter. Na tu ral and ju r id ical persons may trade gold coins (commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980) for num i sm a t ic purposes on ly. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Resident Accounts 656 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 657 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Cordoba accounts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) contracts may be opened w i th commercial banks. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments No. No. All importers mu st subm it an import declaration form either to commercial banks or to customs when they are us ing their own resources. Some import paymen ts are made w i th sight draf ts, but almost all are made th rough letters of credit. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of 746 i tems are subject to a temporary import tar iff of 30% independent of the ir origin, and all impor ts are subject to a sales tax and the Central American Com- mon Tariff. The 1997 tax reform reduced the max imum tariff on most products to 15% as of Ju ly 1997. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Su r render requ i remen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Surrender requ iremen ts were abolished on January 1, 1996, but all exporters benefit- ing from the export promotion mechanism must deposit export proceeds in an account at commercial banks. Exporters may mob i l ize the account later w i thout any restriction. No. No. Export licenses are not requ ired, but all exports mu st be registered (Registro Unico de Exportation) w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 NICARAGUA Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions For statistical purposes, these credits must be reported to the CBN w i th in 30 days after the credits have been granted. To residents from nonresidents Same requirement applies as for commercial credits. Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Foreign exchange or ig ina t ing from new inves tmen ts or additions to capital must be surrendered to the CBN through commercial banks. No. No. No. Ind iv idu al l im i ts app ly depending on the type of credit in s t i tu t ion. W i th regard to s ight deposits, l im i ts are imposed according to work ing capital requirements, and up to 100% of capital for cer t if ica te of deposits. Other p ruden t ial regu la t ions app ly, as es- tablished by the Superintendency of Financial In s t i tu t ions (SOFI). Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on po r t fo l io invested abroad n.a. Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on assets/liabilities composition There are p ruden t ial regulations established by the SOFI. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Changes During 1997 659 Imports and import payments June 6. The m a x im um ta r i ff on most products was reduced to 15% starting in Ju ly 1997. Capital transactions P rov i s ions spec if ic to comme rc ial banks and o ther c red it i n s t i t u t i o ns November 1. The CBN un i f i ed reserve requ iremen ts at 17% across deposit ma tu r i t ies and currency d enom in a t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc issued by the BCEAO. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate be- tween the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, wh ich must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. No. No. A new decree issued in 1997 s t ipu la tes that importers may hedge forward. However, no imp lemen t ing regulations have been issued. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because BCEAO has an Operations Account at the French Treasury, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Niger concluded an arrangement w i th N iger ia in August 1993. Agreements have been concluded w i th Algeria and L ibya but are not yet opera t iona l. An Operations Account is ma in ta ined w i th the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the F inanc ial Re la t ions Directorate of the M i n i s- try of Finance (MOF). By delegation, the BCEAO is au tho r ized to carry out controls relating to the external pos i t ion of banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. International security restrictions Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No. Yes. Yes. Impor ts and exports of gold require prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the MOF. Exempt f rom th is requirement are (1) impo r ts and exports by or on beha lf of the Treasury or the 660 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency NIGER 661 BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt impor ts of gold are subject to customs declaration. Travelers are allowed to export CFA banknotes. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes continue to be suspended. In addition, the sh ipment of BCEAO banknotes between au tho r ized intermediaries and their correspondent banks located outside of the WAEMU zone is s tr ic t ly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; for larger amounts, documentation demonstrating either the importa- t ion of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks is required. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out the equ iva lent of up to CFAF 2 m i l l ion in banknotes other than CFA franc banknotes; amounts in excess of th is l im it may be taken out in other means of payment. Residents and nonresidents are free to import banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Nonresidents may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must surrender them w i th in eight days of entry. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required, after assent by the BCEAO in cooperation w i th the President of the WAEMU Council of Ministers. The ho ld ing of accounts at banks abroad is not expressly proh ib i ted under the legisla- t ion in force, wh ich, however, proh ib i ts any transfer for the cons t i tu t ion of ho ld ings abroad by a res iden t, except where a wa iver is granted by the MOF. These accounts are not provided for under the exchange regulations. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required, after assent by the BCEAO in cooperation w i th the President of the WAEMU Counc il of M in is te rs. These accounts are subject to strict regu la t ions; they may not be credited w i th bankno tes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue h av ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Conver t ib le into foreign currency Non res ident accounts may be converted in to any currency. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 662 NIGER Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts All impor ts exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of fuel require licenses. A license is required for imports of petroleum products. This is not covered in the exchange control regulations. The customs tariff regime consists of three ad valorem rates of 5%, 10%, and 30%. There is also a 5% processing fee levied on imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Petroleum products and Pharmaceuticals con t inue to be imported by pub l ic enter- prises. However, the process of p r iva t iz ing these enterprises is under way. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts The due date of payment for exports must fa ll w i t h in 120 days after the goods have been shipped. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchas ing coun try, must be repatriated in their entirety through an authorized in termed iary bank no later than 30 days from the date of receipt. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Export taxes Exports of livestock, leather and skins, onions, rice, and sugar are subject to the sub- mission of a statistical registration certificate. Exports to France and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange comm i tmen t. All exports of more than CFAF 3 m i l l ion must be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r ized in te r- mediary bank. No. Exports and reexports are subject to a 5% statistical tax. Reexports are subject to a special tax of 10%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib le transactions w i th France, Monaco, and the countries l inked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted free ly. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Other paymen ts are subject to in- dicative limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 663 P ro f i t /d iv idends Transfers of p ro f i ts are perm i t ted free ly when the basic transac t ion has been approved. Amo r t i z a t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Paymen ts for t ravel Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers abroad for the amortization of loans are not subject to au thor iza t ion. How- ever, because paymen ts for depreciation of direct inves tmen ts are not expressly cov- ered in the gove rn ing leg is la t ion, the au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required. Yes. The l im i ts are the e q u i v a l e nt of CFAF 1 m i l l ion a t r ip for tou r ist travel and CFAF 200,000 a day for up to one mon th for bu s ine ss t rave l. Indicative limits/bona fide test A l lowances in excess of the l im i ts are subject to the authorization of the MOF. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Credit cards may be used up to the ceilings for tour ist and business t rave l. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts All amoun ts due, except for t ransac t ions w i th France, Monaco, and Operations Account coun tr ies, mu st be surrendered w i t h in one mon th of the due date or date of receipt. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions There are no res tr ic t ions on cap i tal in f lows in to WAEMU member coun tr ies. They are to be declared for s ta t i s t ical purposes. For inve s tmen ts and loans abroad, i n c l u d i ng those in France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries that are not WAEMU members, the pr ior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is requ i red. In add i t ion, special con trol is exercised over calls for funds for deposit from fore ign na t iona ls, companies, and in s t i tu t ion s, and over any p u b l i c i ty aimed at p lac ing f u n ds abroad or sub sc r ib ing to cons truc t ion or real estate operations abroad. These special measures also app ly to France, Monaco, and Operations Account coun tr ies that are not WAEMU members. Securities may be sold or issued in Niger, but mu st be declared for s ta t is t ical purposes to the MOF. Residents may purchase securities sold or issued by nonres iden ts on ly af ter ob ta in ing the au tho r i z a t ion of the MOF. There is no res tr ic t ion on sales of secu- rities cons t i tu t ing the l iqu id a t ion of inves tmen ts in the fo rm of t rans fe rs between non- residents and residents, provided that the procedures established for the f inanc ial settlement of such operations are observed. The settlement of operations in securities by t r an s f er abroad or by deposit to the account of a non res ident requ ires an exchange au tho r i z a t ion, w h i ch mu st be subm i t ted for clearance to the MOF together w i th docu- men ts p rov ing th at the operation was ac tua l ly carried ou t. The prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required for these operations and for t rans fer abroad of f u n ds for t h is purpose. Bonds or other debt securities The same regu la t ions app ly as for shares or other secu r i t ies of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A dec lara t ion to the MOF is requ ired. Purchases by res iden ts mu st be au tho r ized in advance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 NIGER Purchase abroad by residents Subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents are free to sell money market ins trumen ts abroad. Sales representing disin- vestment are subject to prior declaration. Foreign exchange earnings from sales or d is inves tment must be surrendered to an authorized banking intermediary. The issue abroad of money market ins t rumen ts by residents is governed by the provisions appli- cable to loans. Sales and issues must be declared. Purchases by residents are subject to prior au thor iza t ion. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities These ins t rumen ts are v i r tua l ly nonexistent in Niger. However, ins t rumen ts of th is type are governed by the rules and regulations no rma l ly applicable to securities and direct investments. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Credits to nonresidents are subject to the following: (1) claims resulting from the ex- portation of goods must be collected, and the related amounts repatriated through the BCEAO, w i th in 30 days of the due date for payment stipulated in the commercial contract. The time allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days fo l low ing sh ipment of the goods; and (2) claims resulting from the provision of services must also be col- lected and surrendered on the foreign exchange market w i th in one month of the pay- ment due date. No t ime l im it has been o f f ic ia l ly fixed for such payment. There are no restrictions on the gran t ing of loans of this type. Their repayment is, in general, authorized, subject to the submission of documents prov ing that the commer- cial operation or prov is ion of services has actually taken place and ind ica t ing the due date for paymen t. The granting of f inanc ial credit is subject to prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF. For the transfer abroad of funds in this context, a foreign exchange au thor iza t ion must be submitted for clearance from the M in i s t ry, together w i th the necessary suppo r t ing documents. The g ran t ing of loans of th is type is subject to a declaration for statistical purposes. There are no res tr ic t ions on the repayment of loans, provided that suppo r t ing docu- ments are subm i t ted to the authorized in termed iary bank responsible for the paymen t. By residents to nonresidents Same regulations apply as for f inanc ial credits. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions, and the necessary funds must be transferred from abroad th rough an authorized in termed iary. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inves tmen ts made abroad by residents are subject to the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF. Investors must app ly in wr i t ing to make such inves tmen ts and indicate in the ir letter the name of the authorized in te rmed ia ry that w i ll be responsible for the paymen t. Whe ther such paymen ts are made by transfer of funds abroad or by credit to a foreign account in f rancs, they may not be made before the end of the period agreed between the parties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inwa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd inves tment is subject to declaration for statistical purposes. NIGER 665 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Earn ings from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs, upon submission of the necessary suppor t ing documen ta t ion to the MOF and after the latter has replied. The liquidation of inves tmen ts, whe ther outward or inwa rd, must be reported to the MOF w i t h in 20 days of each operation. Same regu la t ions app ly as for ou tward direct inves tmen t. Same regu la t ions app ly as for the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen t. By residents to nonresidents Prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents A declaration is required for statistical purposes. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies " By residents to nonresidents G if ts and endowments are subject to prior au thor iza t ion. Inheritances and legacies are not restricted. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Imm ig ran ts who have acquired resident status must f irst obtain authorization from the MOF to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions App roval is granted upon presentation of suppo r t ing em igra t ion documen ts to the authorized in termed iary responsible for paymen t. Borrow ing abroad The same regulations apply as for loans contracted by residents. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are not authorized to hold liquid assets outside of the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of the ir current operations. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denom ina ted in fore ign exchange D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks There are no restrictions on these operations when they invo lve commercial credits; the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required for loans, f inanc ial credits, and pur- chases of securities issued abroad. There are no restrictions on these operations when they invo lve commercial credits; the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MOF is required for loans, f inanc ial credits, and pur- chases of securities issued abroad. Domestic foreign exchange loans or purchases of securities issued locally and de- nom ina ted in fore ign exchange require the prior au thor iza t ion of the MOF (no regula- tory provision exp l ic i t ly governs operations of th is type). Yes. The same regu la t ions app ly as for direct foreign inve s tmen t. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open fore ign exchange po s i t ion l im i ts There are no p r u d e n t i al ra t ios. Open pos i t ions resu lt f rom special d ispensa t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 666 NIGER Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition n.a. Dispensation is required from the MOF for r isks unde r taken abroad. Yes. Yes. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Restrictions are imposed by the Insurance Code of the In te r -A f r ican Conference of Insurance Markets. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Du al Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of N iger ia is the N iger ian na ira. There is an o f f i c i al exchange rate at wh ich all government transactions w i th the Cen- tral Bank of N iger ia (CBN) are conducted, and a market-determined exchange rate in the Au tonomous Foreign Exchange Market (AFEM) at wh ich all other transactions take place. The o f f ic ial exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar at N22 per $1. The rate of the naira is determined by the CBN in the context of a weekly foreign exchange auction to au thor ized dealers on behalf of their customers. The authorities manage the naira rate in a flexible manner in l ight of developments in the in terbank and para l lel foreign exchange markets. No. Yes. Forward exchange transac t ions at the AFEM rate are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and the ir customers. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies No. Yes. Yes. The 1962 Exchange Control Act has been abrogated; however, the Federal M in i s t ry of Finance (FMF) formulates basic exchange control policy and issues directives as ap- propriate for the operation of the AFEM. The CBN is the principal administrator of foreign exchange transac t ions; it appoints and revokes the appointments of authorized dealers or authorized buyers of foreign currency, and supervises and monitors the operation of the AFEM. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Ex ternal debt-service paymen ts are limited to 30% of foreign exchange receipts after deduc t ions are made for certain specified purposes. The Debt Conversion Program (DCP) regulates the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt ins trumen ts at a dis- count and the disposition of the na i ra proceeds on the conversion of such debt. The majority of arrears are to Paris Club bilateral creditors, but there are also small amoun ts of arrears to mu l t i l a t e r al and non-Paris C lub b i la teral creditors. 667 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 668 NIGERIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized in- dustrial users are not allowed, w i thout special perm iss ion, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewe lry require spe- cific licenses issued by the FMF. The exportation of amounts in excess of N 1,000 is prohibited. The exportation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. The importation of amoun ts in excess of N1,000 is proh ib i ted. The impor ta t ion of amoun ts in excess of $5,000 or its equ iva lent must be declared. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Any person may open, ma in ta in, and operate a dom ic i l iary account designated in for- eign currency w i th an authorized dealer. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. External accounts are ma in ta ined for diplomatic representatives of all countries and in terna t ional organizations. They may be credited w i th authorized payments by resi- dents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, w i th payments from other ex ternal accounts, and w i th proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of N iger ia, for paymen ts to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Domestic currency accounts Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Convertible in to foreign currency Nonresident accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from services rendered loca l ly, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to, and approval has been obtained f rom, the CBN before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs NIGERIA 669 Unless a "clean report of findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, for- eign exchange settlements for imports may not be effected. Effec t ive Janua ry 1, 1997, transactions invo lv ing the use of bills for collection and open accounts are allowed. However, the transactions executed on private sector initiatives do not carry any gov- ernment guarantee or obligation. The remittances are to be made through the AFEM, wh i le the re levant clean report of f ind ings for the transactions are to be channeled through authorized dealers. All containerized imports, irrespective of their value, are subject to preshipment in- spection. The government is now responsible for the payment of a service charge for the Comprehensive Import Superv is ion Scheme (CISS). Import paymen ts covered by confirmed letters of credit are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the unde rs tand ing that the goods paid for w i ll arrive in Nigeria and that all sh ipp ing documents are lodged by importers w i th the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian government w i t h in 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. The impor ta t ion of pou l t ry, eggs, mosqu i to repe l lan t, coils, plastic domestic articles, maize, sorghum, m i l le t, wheat f lour, vegetable oils, barytes and bentonites, retreaded or used tires, and gam ing machines is prohibited. Import duties range f rom zero to 100%, w i th most goods subject to rates between 10% and 40%. The unwe igh ted average du ty is about 35%. In addition, six import sur- charges app ly: a 7% port development surcharge; a 5% levy on imported sugar; a 2% surcharge on automobiles; a 5% Port Development Surcharge; a 1% Raw Materials and Development Council surcharge; and a 0.02% fre ight rate s tab i l iza t ion surcharge earmarked for the N iger ian Shippers Counc i l. An import du ty rebate of 25% applies to most goods. Certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion P re sh ipment inspec t ion Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of sh ipment of the goods. All oil exploration and produc ing companies, as well as oil services companies, must sell the ir foreign exchange earnings to the CBN at the p reva i l ing AFEM rate. Non-oil exporters are perm i t ted to sell the ir export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at au tonomous foreign exchange market rates. Payment for exports should be made w i th letters of credit or any other approved inter- national mode of payment. Repatriated non-oil export proceeds and other in f lows should be held in dom ic i l iary accounts ma in ta ined w i th au thor ized dealers in N iger ia. Holders of the dom ic i l ia ry accounts have easy access to the ir f u n ds ma in ta ined there in, subject to the ex is t ing gu ide l ines, and may sell the ir export proceeds to banks other than those where they m a i n t a in the ir dom i c i l i a ry accounts. All exports, oil and non -o i l, f rom N iger ia are subject to p resh ipment inspection by gove rnmen t -appo in ted inspec t ion agents. All exporters are responsible for the pay- ment of a service charge for the N ige r ian Export Supe rv is ion Scheme (NSS) at rates de term ined and advised by the FMF. Produc t ion of u n r e f i n ed gold and pe tro leum products is subject to l icens ing. The expor ta t ion of A f r i c an an t iques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 670 NIGERIA is proh ib i ted, except under certain conditions. Exports of t imber (processed and un- processed), raw hides and skins, cassava, maize, rice, yam, beans, scrap me ta l, and unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps are proh ib i ted. Exports of petroleum are hand led by the N iger ian Na t ional Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest paymen ts Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval Payments for travel Study abroad costs Consulting/legal fees Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits App l ica t ions for foreign exchange must be subm i t ted to banks; ve r i f ica t ion is on an ex post basis, and such paymen ts are a l lowed, subject to documen ta t ion requ i remen ts. The l im it is 2% on b i l ls for collection. Yes. Yes. App l ica t ions for the rem i t tance of prof i ts and d iv idends from cap i tal inves tment are made through authorized dealers and are approved, subject to documen ta t ion requ ire- ments. Interest income, p ro f i ts /d iv idends, patent license fees, and o ther inv i s ib les connected w i th approved projects under the Debt Conversion Program (DCP) may not be repatriated for a m i n im um period of f ive years from the date of release of redemp- tion proceeds for actual inves tment or f ive years after such prof i ts and d iv idends are made or paid, wh ichever is later, subject to documentation requirements. Procurement and repayment are subject to m i n im um documentation requ iremen ts. A personal travel allowance is ava i lab le to all N iger ian c i t izens in the AFEM w i thout any restriction as to the amount of en t i t lement and age l im i t. Nigerian ch i ldren born abroad and holding foreign passports are also entitled to the allowances, provided the ir status as Nigerians is confirmed. Business t r ip allowances are permitted for regis- tered companies w i thout any l im it on the amount that a company may enjoy in any calendar year. Foreign exchange remittances in the AFEM are allowed for all leve ls of educa t ional studies in overseas ins t i tu t ions. Up to 20% of the fees for projects of a very h igh technological con ten t, for w h i ch local expertise is not ava i lab le, may be remitted. Yes. Up to 100% of net salary after tax, subject to a documen ta t ion requ i remen t. Indicative limits/bona fide test Evidence of income earned and taxes paid must be provided. Gambling/prize earnings Gamb l ing is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds mu st be received th rough banks. Surrender requ iremen ts All proceeds from oil compan ies are bought by the CBN. Restrictions on use of funds There are no restrictions except for oil proceeds bought by the CBN. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Capital Transactions 671 Controls on capital and money market instruments App l ica t ions for pr iva te capital transfers abroad are processed by banks, subject to satisfactory documentation. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions may be conducted th rough authorized dealers w i th pr ior perm iss ion o f t h e FM F. Residents of N iger ia may deal in foreign currency securities and may buy from, or sell to, nonresidents of N iger ia any security payab le in na ira w i thout the perm iss ion of the FMF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Permission of the FMF is not required by nonresident ind iv idu a ls or companies (other than banks) registered in Nigeria that are controlled directly or ind irec t ly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable companies to meet temporary shortages of fund s, licensed banks in N iger ia may grant loans or overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General perm iss ion is also given for any loan, bank overdraf t, or other credit fac i l i ty to be arranged to f inance N iger ian imports or exports of goods. Except for the purpose of f inanc ing imports or exports, no approval is required from the FMF for any ind iv idu a l, f i rm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. However, o f f ic ial agencies and state-controlled corporations require the pr ior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of supp l iers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the FMF. There are no ceilings for foreign capital pa r t ic ipa t ion in the equ i ty capital of enter- prises in var ious sectors of the economy. The N iger ian Inves tment Promotion Com- m iss ion deals w i th all matters re la t ing to registration and the prescription of app l icab le incentives for direct capital inves tment in p r io r i ty areas. Approval of the FMF is not needed. Capital proceeds ar is ing from the subsequent disposal of inves tmen ts made under the DCP may on ly be repatriated 10 years after the effective inves tment of the proceeds, and is l im i ted to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents This should not exceed $500 at a time. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 NIGERIA Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Nigeria was reclassified to "managed floating" from "pegged: single currency." January 1. Transactions invo lv ing the use of bills for collection and open accounts are now allowed. However, the transactions executed on private sector in i t ia t ives do not carry any government guarantee or obligation. The remittances are to be made through the AFEM, wh i le the relevant clean reports of f ind ings for the transac t ions are to be channeled through the authorized dealers. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Foreign exchange remittance in the AFEM was allowed for all levels of educational studies in overseas institutions. January 1. The restriction imposed on foreign na t iona ls to remit 75% of the ir salaries net of tax as personal home remittance was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 11, 1967. Currency The currency of No rway is the Norwegian krone. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The monetary policy objective of the Bank of Norway (BN) is to ma in ta in the stability of the Norwegian krone against European currencies. No fluctuation margins are established. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The BN, in cooperation w i th the M in is t ry of Finance and Customs, exercises control. No rway notified the IMF on Janua ry 20, 1995, that in compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions w i th respect to the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). Restrictions have been imposed on f inanc ial transactions w i th Libya and Iraq (in ac- cordance w i th UN Security Counc il Resolutions Nos. 661/90, 686/91, and 670/90). No. No. A resident or nonresident who on entry into or departure from Norway is carrying Norweg ian and/or foreign banknotes and coins equivalent to an amount in excess of NKr 25,000 a person a journey is obliged to no t i fy the Customs Administration on the prescribed form. A resident or nonresident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, courier, or other form of transport con ta in ing Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equivalent to an amount in excess of NKr 25,000, is obliged to no t ify the BN in wr i t ing. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 673 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 674 NORWAY Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conv e r t ib le i n to fore ign cu r rency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly The existence of these accounts mu st be reported to the BN. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts J u r i d i c al and n a t u r al persons a re e l ig ib le. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments . No. No. No. There are cer ta in measures imposed for san i ta ry reasons. All impo r ts from Iraq and L ibya are proh ib i ted. Certain tex t i les and garmen ts are sub- ject to impo rt l icens ing for su rve i l lance purposes. Footwear from Taiwan Province of Ch ina is subject to licensing requirements. Yes. These licenses are required for tex t i les. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes Taxes collected th rough the exchange system Exports subject to regu la t ion are listed and require licenses. Exports to any coun t ry under NKr 2,000 are exempt; for arms and ammun i t ion, th is l im it is NKr 500, and for f i sh and f ish products, NKr 1,000. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 675 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Same restrictions app ly as for inwa rd direct inves tmen t. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on po r t fo l io invested abroad Cu r rency -ma tch ing regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition No. No. The restriction applies on ly to the purchase of shares and other securities of a partici- pating nature that may be affected by laws on inward investment and establishment. No. No. No. Foreign exchange banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions are subject to exposure regu la t ion, and must subm it reports on the ir net foreign currency position to the BN. Net posi- tions of up to 10% of the f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions' equ i ty and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in d i f fe rent currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept w i t h in 20% of the f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s' equ i ty and subordinated loan capital. n.a. There are no currency ma tch ing regulations on asset/liability composition for invest- ment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance and pension funds for wh ich net f inanc ial assets in a currency have to be equ iva lent to at least 80% of tech- nical provisions in the same currency at any time. An insurance company cannot have negative f inanc ial assets in a currency. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Other restrictions are included in Act No. 52 (1981) on Securities Funds and Ru les for Asset Management. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1974. Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The exchange rate of the rial Omani is pegged to the dollar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. No. No. Yes. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. No. The Central Bank of Oman (CBO) has exclusive exchange control au tho r i ty; there is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions Restrictions are imposed w i th respect to Israel. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Gold transactions w i th Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 676 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs OMAN 677 Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Companies operating in Oman and trad ing in manufac tured oil products are proh ib i ted from impor t ing specified products as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Customs du t ies range from 5% for most goods to 100% for imports of alcoholic bev- erages and limes. Customs du t ies are not levied on government imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval Rem i t tances by commerc ial banks require prior approval from the CBO. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits OMAN Capital Transactions Foreign share owne rsh ip in Omani companies is l im i ted to 49%, but it could be raised to 100%. n .a. No. The Oman Develpment Bank can prov ide med ium- and long-term loans at preferen t ial interest rates for project f in an c ing in the pe tro leum, ag r icu l tu ra l, f i she ry, and m ine ral sectors; it can also give assistance in p re inves tment research. In add i t ion, the govern- ment provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects w i th a ma jo r i ty Omani shareho ld ing that are used for indu s t r ial produc t ion for exportation or the use of ind igenous raw ma ter ia ls or labor, or the deve lopment of tou r i sm. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment in business f i rms in Oman by nonresidents requires pr ior approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts No. No. Yes. n.a. Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts The l im it is 40% of banks' capital and reserves. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: J u ly 1, 1994. Currency The currency of Pak is tan is the Pak is tan rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Reg ional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee is set by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). Effective February 5, 1998, commercial banks were allowed to quote the ir own ex- change rates for currencies other than the do l lar and on March 24, 1998, banks were allowed to quote the ir own exchange rates for the dollar w i t h in the SBP buy ing /se l l ing band. At the same t ime, the spread between the SBP buy ing / se l l ing rates was in- creased to 1% from 0.5%. No. No. There is a forward market. On September 19, 1997, the m ax imum tenure of forward cover provided by banks for trade transactions was increased from six mon ths to twelve months. On September 30, 1997, forward cover facilities were provided for funds bought from abroad for portfolio inves tmen t. Forward exchange cover for pr iva te foreign currency deposits is provided by the SBP, wh ich charges an annual fee of 7.20%, 10.10%, 3.90%, and 5.50% on deposits in deutsche mark, yen, pounds sterling, and dollars, respectively. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Pakistan is a member of the ACU. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU w i th respect to current transactions are effected in AMUs. The SBP has delegated au tho r i ty to a number of banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requ iremen ts, and to sell foreign exchange w i t h in l im i ts prescribed by the SBP. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade There is no control on local trade in gold bu l l ion. The exportation of gold is proh ib i ted unless authorized by the SBP; such perm iss ion is not u su a l ly granted. Imports are allowed th rough three dealers authorized by the government. 679 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 PAKISTAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically An ind iv idual may take out up to PRs 500 to Ind ia and and PRs 3,000 to other countries. An ind iv idual may bring in up to PRs 500 from India and PRs 3,000 from other coun- tries. Coins from India may be imported up to Indian Rs 5 a person each time. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, for- eign currency notes, proceeds from foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs), foreign currency bearer certificates (FCBCs), and dollar bearer certificates (DBCs). Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services, earnings from services of residents, earn- ings and prof i ts of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan f i rms or companies and banks, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of w i thdrawa l. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to f ive years) is fixed by the SBP w i th the approval of the government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit bid rate of Barclays Bank, London. The marg ins over the Eurodollar deposit bid rates range from 0.75% for three-mon th deposits to 2% for five-year deposits. Held abroad Balances of up to $1,000 may be held abroad w i th the approval of the SBP. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Pakistan nationals residing abroad and foreign na t iona ls, whe ther residing abroad or in Pak is tan, and f irms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are oth- erw ise eligible to open foreign currency accounts (FCAs) may open such accounts w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, yen, pounds sterling, and dollars; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders w ish ing to make paymen ts in Pakistan must f irst convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts in to Pakistan rupees. If Paki- stan nationals ho ld ing such accounts re turn to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the SBP. Au thor ized dealers under the FCA fac i l i ty may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, inc lud ing f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions owned by them; such term deposits mu st be at least $5 m i l l ion (or the equ iva lent in other currencies) w i th a ma tu r i ty period of at least three mon ths. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 0.5% above LIBOR. The accounts of i n d i v i d u a l s, f i rm s, or companies res id ing ou ts ide Pak is tan are desig- nated nonresident accounts. D i f fe rent rules apply to the nonres ident rupee accounts of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 681 ind iv idua l s, f i rm s, or companies on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee ac- counts of banks on the other hand. Au thor ized banks are perm i t ted to open nonresi- dent accounts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened w i th funds received from abroad through banking channels or w i th rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout prior approval. Domestic currency accounts are convertible in to foreign currency when opened as convertible rupee accounts w i th f u n ds received from abroad. Accounts of residents of Ind ia, other than the accounts of the Ind ian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. Clean-on-board shipped b i l ls of lading and other documentation, as per the contract, or LCs are required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. P resh ipment inspec t ion Inspection of some items was required up to March 1997. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses are not required. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 34 items on the hea l th and safety l ist are restricted. The impor t ing of 16 items on the procedural l ist requires cer ta in techn ical expertise (e.g., petroleum) or certain condi- t ions (e.g., unassembled cars). Many of the products on the negative l ist are those that are banned for religious and health reasons or to discourage consump t ion of luxu ry items, or are goods banned under in te rna t ional agreements. The list inc ludes several textile items. There are six import tariff rates rang ing from zero to 45%, and tariffs of 100% to 265% are levied on imports of automobiles and alcoholic beverages. In add i t ion, a regulatory du ty is imposed on caustic soda, polyester chips, sack k ra ft paper, and automobile parts (exc lud ing automobile l ight bulbs). Taxes collected th rough the exchange system n.a. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i t h in four mon ths of sh ipmen t. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds mu st be surrendered w i t h in four mon ths of sh ipmen t; in cases where export- ers are not required to pay commissions to the overseas buyers/agents, or they pay the commission at a rate lower than the permissible rate, they may keep the commission d i f fe ren t ial up to 5% of the f.o.b. va lue of the goods in foreign currency accounts, and these funds can be used for specific purposes. The surrender of A fgh an is accru ing f rom exports to the I s lam ic State of A fghan i s tan is not required. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documen ts required are a f i rm order, the exporter's registration w i th the Export Promotion Bu reau, and fo rm "E." Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses Yes. Expor ts to Israel are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 W i th quotas Export taxes PAKISTAN Export licenses are required for maize, cement, gram, split gram, and camels. There are no export duties; however, a nom inal fee (export development surcharge) of 0.5% is chargeable on all exports, except for a few specified items. Regulatory du t ies are levied on exports of tomatoes and uncrushed/crushed bones at rates rang ing from 15% to 25%, and on exports of wet b lue tanned hides and sk ins (except for those im- ported and reexported), at a rate of 50%. The standard rate of income tax on export/import proceeds is 1%. It is reduced to 0.75% on exports of goods manufac tured in Pak is tan, and to 0.5% on exports of jew- elry, ceramics, surgical equ ipmen t, and sporting goods. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Adm in is t ra t ive expenses Quantitative limits Commissions Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Commissions, brokerage fees, and other charges are generally l im i ted to 5% of invoice values. The rate is 1% for cotton and cement, and more for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest paymen ts Quantitative limits Interest paymen ts are allowed up to 1.5% over LIBOR. However, there is no l im it on interest w i th respect to project loans. On May 27, 1997, the payment of interest was permitted under impor ts on a usance basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Prof i t /d iv idends The remittance of d iv idends declared on current prof i ts is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the inves tment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insu r- ance, sh ipp ing, and the a i r l ine business is permitted w i thout restriction provided that the required documents are subm i t ted to the SBP. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a b ranch 's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax au thor i t ies. Prior approval Prior approval is required for profits but not for the transfer of d iv idends. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Payments for t ravel Quantitative limits The allowance for pr iva te travel to countries other than the Is lam ic State of A fghan i- stan, Bangladesh, and Ind ia is $50 a day for up to 42 days du r ing a calendar year on submission of travel documents to the authorized dealers. Requests for foreign ex- change in excess of these amounts are to be referred by the authorized dealers to the SBP, g iv ing ju s t i f ica t ion for the additional amount. Unspent foreign exchange, how- ever, mu st be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The en t i t lement may be used in in s ta l lmen t s. There are also specific allowances for p i lg r ims' travel to Saudi Arab ia. Exporters of goods w i th annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 m i l l ion and exporters of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 683 services w i th annual earn ings of more than PRs 0.25 m i l l ion are granted a renewab le bus iness t ravel a l lowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 a bus iness t r ip. In add i t ion, business trave lers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a m ax imum of $3,000 for a 30-day v is i t, w i th the encashment of FEBCs. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Med ical costs Prior approval S tudy abroad costs App roval is required on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange a l lowances for s tuden ts' tu i t ion fees and expenses as required by i n s t i t u t i o ns may be obtained from au thor ized dealers w i thout app roval from the SEP. Quantitative limits A l lowances for p ro fe s s ional t r a i n i ng abroad are granted at $1,200 a mon th. Subsc r ip t ions and membe rsh ip fees Quantitative limits Con su l t ing / legal fees Prior approval Pens ions Prior approval There is no l im it for i n d i v i d u a l s. For p ro fess ional and specialized o rgan iza t ions, the l im it is PRs 20,000 a ca lendar year. Yes. Yes. Gamb l ing /p r ize earn ings Rem i t tance of such revenue is not a l lowed. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Cred it card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. A l lowances are de te rm ined on a case-by-case basis. Bus iness trave lers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a m a x im um of $3,000 for a 30-day v i s i t, w i th the encashment of FEBCs. There are no l im i ts if the amount is charged to a fore ign currency account of the cardho lder. Indicative limit s/bona fide test n .a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds must be surrendered w i t h in three mon th s. Travel agents and tour agents are perm i t ted to re ta in up to 5% of the ir foreign exchange earn ings for ma rke t ing and related export promo t ion expenses. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by non re s iden ts There are no re s t r ic t ions on the sale of secu r i t ies purchased in Pak is tan. Howeve r, non re s iden ts are not perm i t ted to issue secur i t ies in Pak is tan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 PAKISTAN Purchase abroad by residents Residents are allowed to purchase shares abroad and t rans fer the required funds through the mechanism of FEBCs. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell or issue securities after ob ta in ing approval from the Corporate Law Au thor i ty (CLA). The proceeds associated w i th these issues are required to be trans- ferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds required to service these security issues is permitted. Nonresidents are allowed to trade freely in the registered corporate debt ins trumen ts and bonds listed on the stock exchange, in federal investment bonds (FIBs), and in treasury bills (TBs). Nonresidents are permitted to invest in the seventh issue of the Water and Power De- velopment Au tho r i ty (WAPDA) bonds and to trade freely in the secondary market for registered/corporate debt ins t rumen ts and bonds listed in the Stock Exchange along w i th FIBs and TBs. Yes. Yes. Specific perm iss ion is required and is gran ted if the proceeds of the bonds are to be used for the impo rt of p lan ts and mach ine ry. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not perm i t ted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell or issue money market ins t rumen ts after ob ta in ing approval from the CLA. The proceeds associated w i th these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and mach inery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these security issues is permitted. On collective inve s tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transac t ions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell or issue securities a f ter ob ta in ing approval from the CLA. The proceeds associated w i th these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these security issues is permissible. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Ou twa rd transac t ions by residents are not perm i t ted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only rights shares exist. Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts These transac t ions are not permitted, except for r igh ts issues. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits of up to 4 months w i th respect to exported goods, and up to (cid:2)l/2 years w i th respect to the export of p lan ts and machinery are permitted. To residents from nonresidents Credits w i th respect to impor ts of goods are perm i t ted. F inanc ial c red i ts By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on these paymen ts; howeve r, on December 10, 1997, parent companies of the mu l t in a t ion a ls were also perm i t ted to p rov ide loans for f in an c ing the fore ign cu r rency cost of the projects. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 685 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions if the transac t ion is business related. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions, but transactions are subject to compliance w i th other credit restrictions. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Direct inves tment abroad requires prior app roval under foreign exchange laws. How- ever, no permission is required for the purchase of shares of nonres ident companies. Resident Pakistan na t iona ls require prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or immovab le assets held abroad, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds mu st be repatriated to Pakistan th rough no rmal bank ing channe ls. Inves tment in new indu s t r ial un i ts for the manu fac tu re of alcohol, except indu s t r i al alcohol, is banned. Inves tment in the specified industries of arms and ammun i t ions, security printing, currency and m in t ing, h igh explosives, and radioactive substances requires prior approva l. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Sale locally by nonresidents D is inves tment proceeds should not exceed o r ig inal inves tmen t. Controls on personal capital movements Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Up to PRs 500 is perm i t ted, To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad n.a. Yes. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on transfers th rough the secondary marke t. Foreign-controlled inves tment banks are permitted to resort to local borrowing for the ir working capital requirements for up to 100% of the ir pa id- in cap i ta l, reserves, etc., subject to observance of all other nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion rules. Such transactions are allowed for temporary periods, but only if they become neces- sary for the normal course of business. Commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions are allowed to ma in ta in foreign ac- counts; l im i ts for balances are f ixed by the SBP in relation to the foreign exchange business handled by each bank. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not permitted. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange Lending in foreign exchange is not permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Foreign banks and foreign-controlled inves tment banks are permitted to invest in reg- istered corporate debt in s t rumen ts like term f in an c i al certificates (TFCs), etc., th rough in i t i al pub l ic o f fe r ings and secondary market purchases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 PAKISTAN D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts held by non res iden ts Th is is l inked to the respec t ive London In te rbank B idd ing Rate (L IB ID ). Yes. Interest rate controls Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Th is is l inked to the respective L IB ID. Banks may not inv e st abroad. In banks by nonresidents Prior app roval is requ i red. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Open pos i t ion ba lances in nos tro accounts are regulated by the Foreign Exchange Depar tmen t. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exchange arrangement Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts Con tro ls on cred it opera t ions Changes During 1997 September 19. The m a x im um tenure of forward cover provided by banks for trade t ransac t ions was increased from six mon ths to twe lve mon th s. September 30. Forward cover f a c i l i t i es were provided for funds brought from abroad for po r t fo l io inve s tmen t. May 27. The payment of interest was permitted und er import on a usance basis. April 30. Nonres iden ts were permitted to invest in the seventh issue of the WAPDA bonds and to trade freely in the seconday market for registered/corporate debt in s t ru- men ts and bonds listed in the Stock Exchange along w i th FIBs and TBs. December 10. Parent companies of the mu l t ina t iona ls were permitted to prov ide loans for f i n a n c i ng the foreign cu r rency cost of the ir projects. P rov is ions spec if ic to commercial banks and o ther cred it i n s t i t u t i o ns August 13. Foreign banks and foreign-controlled inve s tment banks were perm i t ted to invest in registered corporate debt in s t rum en ts such as TFCs, etc., th rough in i t i al pub- lic o f fe r ings and secondary market purchases. Exchange arrangement September 3. Foreign-controlled inv e s tm ent banks were pe rm i t ted to resort to local borrow ing for the ir wo rk ing capital requ i remen ts up to 100% of th e ir pa id - in cap i ta l, reserves, etc., subject to observance of all other nonbank f in an c i al i n s t i t u t i on ru les. Changes During 1998 February 5. Banks were allowed to quote the ir own exchange rates for currencies other than the do l lar. March 24. Banks were a l lowed to quote the ir own exchange rates for the dollar w i t h in the SBP buy ing / se l l l ing band. The spread between the SBP buy ing / se l l ing rates was also increased to 1% from 0.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 26, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Panama is the Panaman ian balboa. Locally issued currency is l im i ted to coins. The do l lar is legal tender and circulates free ly in Panama. Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins w i th face values of B 100 and B 500, wh ich are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged The currency of Panama is pegged to the dollar at the rate of B 1 per $1. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Restrictions on payments to Libya are in effect. Payment arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade There are o f f ic ial external payment arrears to Libya, holders of nonrestructured bonds who cannot be iden t i f ied, and a supp l ie r 's credit owed by a pub l ic enterprise that is in the process of l iqu ida t ion. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry carried as personal effects by travelers require a license if effected by residents other than the monetary au thor i- ties. Exports of unwo rked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, wh ich are exempt) are subject to a du ty of 0.5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 687 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 688 PANAMA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. On December 1, 1997, a con t ingent mechan ism negotiated under the WTO agreement was established for rice and dairy products to fac i l i ta te the exchange of permits allow- ing the imports of these products at preferential tar iff rates. All tar iff rates are on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c . i .f. va lue of im- ports. Trade reform has resulted in s imp l i f ied tariff bands of zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. The three exceptions to the m ax imum tar iff of 15% are au tomob i les (17%), some dairy products (40%), and rice (50%). All imports in to the area designated as the Colon Free Zone and the new ly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of cer ta in drugs, f irearms, and amm u n i t i on are p roh ib i ted or restricted. Any product ( inc lud ing raw materials and mach inery) may be imported into the Colon Free Zone and stored, mod i f ied, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported w i t h o ut being subject to customs procedures. Export taxes are levied on gold, s i lve r, p l a t i n um, manganese, other m ine ra l s, un r e f in ed sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap me ta l, pearls, an imal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain non t rad i t ional exports (w i th a m i n i m um local cost-of-production ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 689 content of 20%) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20% of value added. Export processing zones are exempt from all taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Offshore banks are authorized to conduct bus iness on ly w i th nonresidents. No. No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments December 1. A contingent mechanism negotiated under the WTO agreement was es- tablished to facilitate the exchange of permits allowing the imports of certain products at preferential tariff rates. Imports and import payments Changes During 1998 January 1. Trade reform was implemented that s imp l if ied tariff rates to zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, or 15%. The reform also identified three exceptions to the max imum rate of 15%: au tomob i l ies (17%), some dairy products (40%), and rice (50%). Specific im- port taxes were e l im ina ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Gu inea k ina. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the k ina is determined freely in the interbank market in wh ich authorized dealer banks participate w i th the Bank of Papua New Gu inea (BPNG) act- ing as broker. The commercial banks, the on ly authorized foreign exchange dealers, pub l i sh rates for a ll current transactions w i th the ir customers w i t h in a m a x im um spread between the buy ing and selling rates of 2%. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover w i th the commerc ial banks at market-determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a p ruden t ial l im it on its uncovered forward pos i t ion. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations At its discretion, the BPNG may in tervene in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Con t rac tual comm i tmen ts to persons res id ing ou ts ide Papua New Gu inea and ex- pressed in a foreign currency mu st be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. No. Foreign exchange control is administered by the BPNG under the Central Bank ing Act. Overall policy is determined by the government w i th the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Papua New Gu inea notified the IMF on J u ly 22, 1992, tha t, in comp l iance w i th UN Security Counc il Reso lu t ion No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for current in te rna t ional transac t ions in respect of the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears n.a. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large m ines, the licenses are contained in the ir respective m i n i ng agreements. For exports of a l l u- v ial gold, specific export licenses are required from the BPNG. 690 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 691 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Travelers w i sh ing to take or send out domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins must obtain approval from the BPNG. Domestic coins issued for num i sm a t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas v is i tors are free to take out any currency they brought in and declared on arr iva l. Resident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Resident business entities are required to ob ta in BPNG approva l, except for term de- posits placed for a m i n im um of 90 days. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Au tho r ized dealers may, w i thout referr ing to the BPNG, approve app l ica t ions for im- port transac t ions that are not subject to quotas or licensing requ iremen ts. Au thor ized dealers may make paymen ts up to K 5,000 upon presentation of commercial invoices. Payments in excess of K 5,000 requ ire a set of sh ipp ing documents and a copy of the customs forms, as we ll as commercial invoices. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of a l im i ted number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security, wh i le others are prohibited to protect domestic markets, inc lud ing sugar, pou l try, and pork. The importation of most fresh f ru i ts and vegetables is banned (except for apples, onions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued, and imports are subject to a 50% ta r i f f. Licenses w i th quo tas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import ta r i ff regime consists of the fo l low ing rates: (1) zero rate for essential items ( in c lud ing food staples such as rice and meat not produced domes t ica l ly ); ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 PAPUA NEW GUINEA (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods (including some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for intermediate goods; (4) 55% for luxu ry goods; (5) 15% or 100% for se- lected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as tinned mackerel and citrus f ru i t s; and (6) 85% for sugar. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be received w i th in six mon ths of the date of export. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. No. No. When exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the BPNG for specific authorization. Licenses are required for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and mar ine products, wood- chips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued subject to m in imum export price guidelines. A l though exports of unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily wa ived, except for those on f ish (10%) and logs (15% to 70%). Export levies also apply to forestry products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are controls on these payments, but approval is readily granted for most, pro- vided that supporting documentation is submitted. Authorized foreign exchange deal- ers may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for all adu lt ind iv idua ls and corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of th is amoun t, except trade-related and debt-service payments, must be referred to the BPNG. For payments or transfers exceeding the equ iva lent of K 50,000 a year, a cer- t if ica te of tax payment is required. Payments for the serv ic ing of debt may be ap- proved w i thout a f ixed l im it by authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source w i t h- out the approval of the BPNG. Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, o ther than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Gu inea, or for its retention. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions There are no restrictions on inwa rd portfolio inves tmen t. Au tho r ized dealers may ap- prove ou tward inves tmen ts by resident ind iv idu a ls and corporations up to the equ iva- lent of K 500,000 a year; inve s tment in excess of th is l im it requires the approval of the BPNG. Income from the inves tment must be re turned to Papua New Gu inea as re- ceived. Prior clearance from the tax au thor i t ies is required for these transac t ions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 693 On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Permission is required for these credits; however, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve unlimited offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses involved in the forestry sector or mineral resources exploration, provided that the term is for not less than one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the BPNG. Repayment of principal is subject to a six-month moratorium commencing on the date of disbursements. A max imum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net ou ts tand ing borrowing. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource exploration activities, inward investment is considered non-interest- bearing equ i ty or loan funds (including preference shares) un t il the business is suc- cessful, at wh ich point any excess above the m in imum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds may be transferred, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad Ma in tenance of accoun ts abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 694 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Subject to presentation of commercial invo ices for bona f ide transac t ions, Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n .a. n.a. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Augu st 23, 1994. Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan gua ran f. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The au tho r i t ies do not m a in t a in ma rg ins w i th respect to foreign exchange t ransac t ions, and exchange rates are determined in the exchange market. The Central Bank of Para- guay (CBP) in te rvenes in the market to smooth out any sharp f luc tua t ions in the ex- change rate of the gua ranf due to seasonal changes in demand and supp ly cond i t ions as we ll as to specu la t ive cap i tal f lows. The in te rven t ion currency is the do l lar. No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into fo rwa rd transactions w i th respect to trade t ransac t ions and on terms that may be negotiated freely w i th customers. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezue la are made th rough accoun ts ma in ta ined w i th the CBP and o ther cen tral banks pa r t ic ipa t ing in the mu l t i la te ral clearing arrangemen ts of the LAIA. C lear ing takes place every four mon ths. C lear ing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The CBP has the au tho r i ty to de term ine foreign exchange policy in consu l ta t ion w i th o ther agencies of the governmen t. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the CBP, wh ich is responsible for imp lemen t ing its decisions. The CBP superv ises, th rough the Super in tendency of Banks, foreign exchange trans- actions carried out by banks and exchange houses. The CBP regulates open fore ign exchange positions. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade The exportation and impor ta t ion of gold by nonbank residents and indus t r ial users in any form other than j ew e l ry requ ire the prior au tho r iza t ion of the CBP. Paymen ts for gold impo r ts by i n d u s t r i al users mu st be made th rough commerc ial banks. 695 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 PARAGUAY Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Preshipment inspection All products must be inspected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of certain products that may be h a rm ful to public hea l th, national secur i ty, or animal or plant health are prohibited. However, these restrictions may be waived to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Paraguay, as a member of the MERCOSUR, applies its common external ta r i f f, wh ich is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay was allowed to exempt 399 i tems from the CET —these exemptions to be phased out by 2006 by gradua l ly ra is ing tar iff rates to 14% on most capital goods and to 20% for telecommunications. Typical rates on goods exempt from the CET are zero for raw materials and intermediate goods; 5% for capital goods; 6% for items for tourism; 10% for consumer goods; 15% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $10,000; and 20% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $20,000. S im i lar ly, on intra-MERCOSUR trade, Paraguay was allowed 427 exceptions to free trade w i th tariff rates ranging from 6% to 30% to be phased out by 2001. The CBP levies a commission of 0.125% on all import paymen ts made under the LAIA Reciprocal Payments Agreement. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 697 State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, rawhides, and w i ld an ima ls are pro- h ib i ted. Certain other exports require prior au thor iza t ion from the appropriate agency. All other exports are not restricted, except w i th regard to technical standards imposed by the Na t ional Ins t i tu te of Technology and Standardization, the M in is try of Industry and Commerce, the M in i s t ry of Public Hea l th, or the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock, depending on the product exported. Export of wood and wood products of certain trees are subject to quotas because of risk of depletion. The CBP levies a commission of 0.125% on all exports made under the LAI A Recip- rocal Payments Agreement. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments P ro f i t /d iv idends Prior approval On ly f inanc ial enterprises require au tho r iza t ion of the CBP to transfer earnings. The government may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges on proposed inves tmen ts that are du ly registered and approved. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requ i remen ts There are no surrender requ iremen ts for proceeds from inv is ib les, except for royalties and remunera t ion from the b ina t ional entities administering the ITAIPU and YACYRETA dams, wh i ch are transferred in fu ll to the CBP for the account of the M i n i s t ry of Finance. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Nonresidents can purchase foreign exchange forward, up to one year, exc lus ive ly for opera t ions re la t ing to trade. The Supe r in tendency of Banks mu st be in fo rmed of amoun ts exceeding $10,000 in comp l iance w i th money launde r ing regu la t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 698 PARAGUAY Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. Borrow ing abroad Permitted up to a specified proportion of pa id -up capital. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Subject to diversification of depository banks and not to exceed 20% of the local bank 's net worth. This l im it can be extended up to 70% of the bank 's net wo r th, under special conditions. Lending to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Permitted up to 5% of the b ank 's net worth and up to 20% subject to approval of a guarantee by the Superintendency of Banks. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inve s tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Permitted up to amounts specified in the bank ing legislation. Reserves should be constituted in foreign currency. The required ratios vary according to the ma tu r i ty of deposits. The l im i ts are according to those specified in the bank ing leg is la t ion. Commercial banks and other f inanc ial intermediaries may ma in ta in a da i ly foreign exchange overbought position not exceeding 50% of the ir capital and reserves. The daily oversold position limits are 50% and 25% of capital and reserves, respectively, for commercial banks and other f inanc ial intermediaries. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Peru is the Pe ruv ian nuevo sol. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f lo a t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined freely by supp ly and demand. Cross rates w i th nondollar currencies are determined against the dollar. No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions take place only in the commercial banking sector. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, the Domini- can Repub l ic, Ecuador, Ma lays ia, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) and the other central banks concerned w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies By law, there are no res tr ic t ions on any exchange transactions, inc lud ing ho ld ing, us ing, pu rchas ing, or selling foreign exchange. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. 699 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency PERU Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. No. n.a. Imports may be prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. On Apr il 13, 1997, tar iff rates were revised downwards, reducing the average ta r i ff to 13.4% from 16.3%. A 12% rate is applied to about 84% of import items, and the re- maining products are subject to a 20% rate. Imports subject to trade agreements are not subject to these tariffs. A temporary surcharge of 5% is applied to some agricul- tural and agroindustrial goods. Raw materials and intermediate goods imported under the Temporary Admission Regime are exempt from import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 701 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted. No. No. No. No. No. No. Credits granted by resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to nonresident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and to nonresident ind iv idua ls or enterprises are subject to prudential l im i ts of port- folio and ind iv idual concentration, respectively. As a measure of monetary control, there is a difference between the treatment of de- posit accounts in domestic currency and deposit accounts in foreign currency, but there is no discrimination between residents and nonresidents. The deposit accounts in foreign currency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 45%. However, the CRBP remunerates the 38% additional reserve requirement w i th the three-month LIBOR rate m inus !3/8%. The securities market in Peru is open to foreign investors. No legal restrictions exist on the purchase or sale of domestic securities by nonresidents, or on the purchase or sale of foreign securities by residents. Revenues can be repatriated w i thout restrictions. The law allows pension funds to invest up to 10% of the ir portfolio in foreign securities. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Imports and import payments Changes During 1997 April 13. Tariff rates were revised downward, reducing the average tariff to 13.4% from 16.3%. A 12% rate is applied to about 84% of impo rt items, and the rema in ing products are subject to a 20% rate. A temporary surcharge of 5% is applied to some agr icu l tural and agro indus tr ial goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Ph i l ipp ines is the Ph i l ipp ine peso. Various denom ina t ions of gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supp ly in the foreign ex- change market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng P i l ip inas (BSP) acts to l im it sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and intervenes when necessary to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Ph i l ipp ine Dealing System (PDS), an electronic screen-based ne twork. The PDS allows trad ing between 8:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. daily among authorized agent banks and the BSP. The system l inks participants through an electronic screen- based network of shar ing informa t ion and under tak ing transactions. The exchange rate of the peso v is-a-v is the dollar at the beg inn ing of the trading day represents the weighted average of all transactions in the PDS du r ing the preceding day. The amount of foreign exhange that can be sold (over-the-counter) w i thout documentation and prior approval was reduced to $25,000 from $100,000 on Ju ly 30, 1997, and to $10,000 on Apr il 7, 1998. Foreign exchange subsidiaries were exempted from th is ru l ing from September 18, 1997, provided that they sell dollars on ly to au thor ized agent banks and bank -a f f i l ia ted foreign exchange corporations. No. No. All forward transactions to purchase foreign exchange from nonresidents, inc lud ing renewals thereof, require prior clearance by the BSP. Effec t ive Ju ly 22, 1997, all for- ward contracts to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents ( inc lud ing offshore bank ing un i t s) w i th no f u ll de l ivery of p r inc ipa l, inc lud ing cancellations, rollovers, and re- newals thereof require prior clearance by the BSP. Only banks w i th expanded der iva- tives license may enter in to transactions covered by nondeliverable forward contracts. Official cover of forward operations Official forward exchange cover for oil import f in an c ing was d iscon t inued on Feb rua ry s, 1997. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing paymen ts, but all foreign exchange proceeds from exports and inv is ib les must be obtained in the fo l low- ing acceptable currencies: Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Bahra in d inars, Belgian francs, B runei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong do l lars, Indonesian rup iahs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d inars, Ma lay- sian r ingg i t, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds s ter l ing, Saudi A rab ian r iya l s, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai bah t, U .A .E. d i rhams, U .S. do l lars, and other such curren- cies that may be declared acceptable by the BSP. Paymen ts may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN coun t r ies, provided th at the BSP is not asked to in te rvene in the clearing of any balances from th is payment scheme. Au tho r ized agent banks may ac- cept notes denom ina ted in the prescribed currenc ies for conve rs ion in to pesos. 702 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 703 Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Ph i l ipp ines is a member of the ASEAN. Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy de- cisions adopted by the Mone tary Board. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Small-scale miners are required to sell all of the ir production to the BSP. All fo rms or types of gold may be bought and sold w i thout specific approval of the BSP. Producers selling gold to the BSP are paid in Ph i l ipp ine pesos on the basis of the latest London f ix ing price and the p reva i l ing Ph i l ipp ine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of the off ic ial in terna t ional reserves. The BSP may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewe l ry manu fac tu re rs and other indus- trial users upon application or to banks on ly for resale to jewe lry manu fac tu re rs and indu s t r ial users, at the BSP's gold-selling price p lus a service fee to cover costs, in- c lud ing the costs of conversion and packaging. Gold produced by small-scale miners is required to be sold to the BSP; all other forms of gold may be exported. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially of gold, gold coins, and coins w i thout any indica- t ion of actual f ineness of gold content. Resident and nonresident travelers must ob ta in prior au thor iza t ion from the BSP to take out more than PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange d rawn in pesos. Departing nonresidents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit un- spent pesos up to a m ax imum of $200 or an equ iva lent amount in other fore ign ex- change w i thout proof of sales of foreign exchange to authorized agent banks. Travelers may br ing in freely up to 510,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange d rawn in pesos. The impo r ta t ion exceeding that amount requires prior authorization from the BSP. Foreign currency Travelers may br ing in freely any amount of foreign currency. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Ju r id i c al and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical and n a tu r al persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 PHILIPPINES Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident accounts may be credited only w i th the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and w i th peso income earned by nonresidents from the Ph i l ipp ines. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident peso deposit accounts may be freely w i thd r awn. Convertible in to foreign currency Conversion of domestic currency accounts is allowed on ly up to the equ iva lent amount of foreign exchange remitted to the Ph i l ipp ines as well as to the equ iva lent amount of peso income earned by nonresidents. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspec t ion Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative l ist Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for paymen ts of imports under LCs, documents against acceptance (D/As), documents against paymen ts (D/Ps), open ac- count (OA) arrangements, and direct remittance. Registration of D/A and OA imports w i th the BSP for monitoring purposes is needed on ly if payments are to be made from the banking system; pr ior approval of the BSP, regardless of ma tu r i ty, is not required. Any extension of ma tu r i t ies must be reported to the BSP 30 days before the effec t ive date. Import arrangements not invo lv ing paymen ts us ing foreign exchange purchased from the bank ing system, such as self-funded no-dollar imports and impor ta t ion on a consignment basis, are allowed w i thout prior approval from the BSP. Senior bank officers responsible for the sale of foreign exchange shall cer t ify tha t, in cases other than LC, D/P, D/A, or OA, the original documents have been presented and that the bank has taken measures to ensure that the applicant/importer has not purchased foreign exchange from the banking system in excess of the amount of the importation as indicated in the invoice. Under the Comprehensive Imports Superv is ion Scheme (CISS), p resh ipment inspec- tion is required for impor ts valued at more than $500 from all countries. Impo r ts de- clared in the sh ipp ing documents as off qu a l i ty, used, secondhand, scraps, offgrade, or a similar term ind ica t ing that the article is not brand new are subject to CISS inspec- t ion even if the va lue of the imports is less than $500. LCs must be opened on or before the date of sh ipment w i th a va l id i ty period of up to one year. Only one LC may be opened for each import transac t ion; amendmen ts to such an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for pr ior approval except when amendment sha ll extend the total va l id i ty of the LC beyond one year. Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed w i thout a license. Yes. The importation of certain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of p u b l ic health and safety, na t ional secur i ty, in terna t ional comm i tmen ts, and deve lopment and ra t iona l iza t ion of local indu s t r ie s. Commodity imports are classified in to three categories: freely impor tab le, regulated, and prohibited. To import regulated products, a clearance or pe rm it is required from the appropriate government agency ( inc lud ing the BSP). Quan t i ta t ive restrictions are imposed on impo r ts of rice. The import tar iff s t ruc tu re consists of four rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on imported capital goods are 3% and 10%, w i th the former app ly ing to goods w i thout domestic subs t i tu tes. Dev ia t ions f rom the s tandard rates inc lude (1) up to doub le the applicable standard rate for imports of f inal goods in indus t r ies that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Inve s tment (BOI) and impor ts of ag r icu l tu ral produc ts for w h i ch quan t i ta t ive restrictions are being removed under the WTO agreement; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 705 (2) du ty exemptions for certain imported capital goods registered w i th the BOI prior to Janua ry 1, 1995, or subject to provisions of RA 7369 and RA 7844 of the Export Development Act. Some 300 products under RA 7369 are du ty exempt, as are imports of machinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts used in export manu fac tu r- ing. The BOI no longer offers tax and duty exemptions on imports of capital equip- ment and spare parts. Instead, newly registered f irms may only obtain du ty reductions on eligible imports to 3%. Tariff rates in the textile and apparel sectors are 3% for inputs and 30% for f inal products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Payments for exports may be made in acceptable currencies in the fo l low ing forms w i thout prior BSP approval: LCs, D/Ps, D/As, OA arrangements, cash against docu- ments arrangements, consignment, export advance, and prepayment. All exports must be covered by an export declaration issued by the Department of Trade and Indus try du ly prepared by the exporter. Exports of selected seeds and shoots of na t ive plants, endangered f ish and w i ld l i fe ( inc lud ing selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Prof i t /d iv idends Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts All paymen ts are subject to quan t i ta t ive and ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. The amount of foreign exchange an authorized agent bank may sell to residents for any nontrade purpose, w i thout need of appropriate documentation, was reduced to $10,000 from $25,000 on Ap r il 7, 1998. Consequently, for sales of foreign exchange exceeding $10,000, the authorized agent's bank shall require a wr i t ten notarized ap- plication and suppor t ing documents from the purchaser. Service payments relating to foreign loans effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has previously been registered w i th the BSP. Unregistered loans can be serv- iced also through transactions in the nonbank market. Service paymen ts relating to foreign direct inves tmen ts effected by purchases of for- eign exchange through authorized agent banks are l im i ted to those transactions whose original capital transfer has previously been registered w i th the BSP. Unregistered inves tmen ts can also be serviced through transactions in the nonbank market. The BSP regulates foreign currency loans to ensure that interest and p r inc ipal owed to creditors can be serviced in an orderly manner and w i th due regard to the economy's overall debt servicing capacity. Pursuant to Ar t ic le VII, Section 20 of the Philippines Cons t i tu t ion, all pub l ic and private sector pub l ic ly guaranteed obligations from for- eign creditors, offshore banking units and foreign currency deposit un i ts shall be referrred to the BSP for prior approval. Other private sector loans from these creditors and other f inanc ing schemes/arrangements shall require prior approval and/or regis- tration by the BSP if they are to be serviced us ing foreign exchange purchased from the bank ing system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 Prior approval Quantitative limits PHILIPPINES Yes. The ceiling is set year ly and is approved by the Mone tary Board of the BSP. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Registration w i th the BSP or designated custodian bank is required. As a general ru le, registration w i th the BSP of foreign inves tmen ts in the form of government securities, securities listed in the Ph i l ipp ine Stock Exchange, money market in s t rumen t s, or bank deposits is not manda tory. Said registration is necessary on ly if the source of the for- eign exchange needed for cap i tal repa tr ia t ion and rem i t tance of d iv idend s, prof i ts, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the bank ing system. Sale or issue of secur i t ies in the Ph i l ipp ines is allowed on ly after the proper license to do business in the coun try is secured by the nonresident from the appropriate govern- ment agency. Effec t ive February 6, 1997, prior approval of the BSP is required for all issuances of peso-denominated ins t rumen ts in the in terna t ional capital markets that shall invo lve (1) inwa rd remittance of foreign exchange to the Ph i l ipp ines and sale thereof for pesos to the local bank ing system; or (2) a resident enterprise, or any of its offshore offices, branches, subs id iar ies, and a f f i l ia te s, wh ich w i ll par t ic ipa te in such transactions as an issuer, guaran tor, or bene f ic ia ry, and where proceeds shall be lent to or be invested in resident companies. Residents may invest abroad w i thout registering the ir inves tmen ts w i th the BSP o n ly if (1) the inve s tment is funded by w i thd rawa ls from Foreign Currency Deposit U n i ts (FCDUs); (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to au thor ized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the b ank ing system but in amoun ts less than $6 m i l l ion for an investor a year. For amounts above $6 m i l l ion (an inves tor a year), prior approval and registration w i th the BSP is required. Reg is t ra t ion w i th the BSP or designated cus tod ian bank may be made at the option of the inves tor. In add i t ion, proceeds of sale of in te rna t ional a l loca t ion of in i t i al pub l ic o f fe r ings (IPOs) and shares of domestic companies listed in foreign stock exchanges mu st also be reported to the BSP w i t h in f ive days from receipt and rem i t ted to the coun t ry. The serv ic ing or t rans fer of funds pe r ta in ing to registered inves tmen ts u s ing foreign exchange from the bank ing system in th is category is allowed w i thout BSP approva l. Reg is tra t ion w i th the BSP is necessary on ly if the source of the fore ign exchange needed for cap i tal repa tr ia t ion and rem i t tance of d iv id end s, prof i ts, and earn ings that accrue thereon sha ll be purchased from the bank ing system. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A l lowed on ly af ter the proper license to do bus iness in the coun t ry is secured from the appropriate government agency. Purchase abroad by res iden ts For amoun ts above $6 m i l l i o n, p r ior approval and reg is t ra t ion by the BSP is requ i red. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 707 Sale or issue abroad by residents All pub l ic and private sector pub l ic ly guaranteed obligations from foreign creditors, offshore bank ing un i t s, and FCDUs shall be referred to the BSP for prior approval. Other private sector loans from these creditors and other financing schemes/arrange- ments shall require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. On money market ins t rumen ts The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. On collective inves tment securities The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Prior BSP approval is required. Only banks and nonbank financial intermediaries perform ing quas ibank ing func t ions and the ir affiliates/subsidiaries du ly authorized by the BSP are allowed to deal in derivative transactions. Effec t ive J u ly 22, 1997, per Circular No. 135, all forward contracts to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents ( inc lud ing offshore bank ing un i ts) w i th no f u ll delivery of principal, inc lud ing cancellations, rollovers/renewals thereof, shall be submitted for prior clearance to the BSP. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective March 15, 1997, loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs and offshore sources, and nonresident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased out- side the bank ing system no longer require prior BSP approval. Prior BSP approval and registration are required for guaranteed, short-term trade- related loans contracted by nonbank residents. For those not covered by pub l ic sector guarantees, prior authority to incur the obligation is not required. They are still, how- ever, subject to the registration requirement for debt servicing us ing foreign exchange from the bank ing system. Credits require prior BSP approval. The usual restrictions on outward remittances and registration requirements apply. Effective March 15, 1997, loans of nonresidents from expanded foreign currency depostis (EFCDUs), irrespective of ma tur i ty, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan shall be serviced us ing foreign ex- change purchased from outside the banking system; and (2) all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied w i th, inc lud ing Single Borrower's L im i t, wh ich shall be defined to include lendings and guarantees issued to companies, their subsidi- aries, aff i l ia tes, and major stockholders all over the world. As a general rule, all foreign loans contracted by nonbank residents w i th guarantees from the public sector or from local commercial banks require prior BSP approval or registration. Those not covered by guarantees are required to be registered only to make them eligible for subsequent debt servicing us ing foreign exchange from the banking system. Effective March 15, 1997, loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs/offshore sources and nonresident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer require prior BSP approval. Guarantees for the account of the public sector, as well as those issued by govern- ment-owned and controlled corporations in favor of nonresidents, require prior BSP approval. Specific guarantees for the account of the private sector do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing u s ing foreign exchange. Guarantees issued by foreign banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions to secure obligations of residents invo lved in foreign lending operations require prior BSP approval. Those issued to secure authorized peso loans or FCDU loans, as well as foreign obligations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 708 PHILIPPINES (wh ich do not invo lve foreign lending) of local f i rms, do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servic- ing using foreign exchange to be purchased from the banking system in the event of a default by the principal debtor. Controls on direct investment The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Outward direct investment Since September 11, 1997, an applicant's income tax return is required to be subm i t- ted to support an application to purchase foreign exchange not exceeding $6 m i l l ion for outward inves tmen t, wh ich does not require prior BSP approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment BSP-registered foreign investments enjoy fu ll and immediate repatriation of cap i tal and remittance of profits, d iv idends, and other earnings. Controls on real estate transactions The same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Ownership of land by nonresidents as well as the exploration, development, and u t i l i- zation of na tu ral resources is l im i ted to 40% equ i ty and is subject to the p rov is ions of the Ph i l ipp ines Cons t i tu t ion. For sale of real estate by nonresidents not per ta in ing to BSP-registered inves tmen ts, they may purchase only as much foreign exchange as they sold to AABs for pesos. No private lands shall be transferred or conveyed except to ind iv idua ls, corporations, or associations qualified to acquire or hold lands of the pub l ic doma in. As for personal property, th is shall be subject to the law of the country where the said property is situated. Commercial banks authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may borrow from other FCDUs, nonresidents, and offshore bank ing un i t s, subject to existing rules on foreign borrowings. Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the fo l low ing modes of payment w i thout prior BSP approval: (1) LCs; (2) D/Ps or cash against paymen t; (3) D/As; (4) OA arrangements; (5) intercompany open account offset; (6) consign- ments; and (7) export advances. Commercial banks, wh ich are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system, may grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents, irrespective of ma tu r i ty, w i thout prior approval of the BSP, prov ided that (1) the loan shall be serviced us ing foreign exchange purchased from ou ts ide the bank ing system; and (2) all applicable bank ing rules and regulations are comp l ied w i th, inc lud ing Single Borrower's L im i t, wh ich sha ll be defined to inc lude lend ings and guarantees issued to companies, the ir subsidiaries, a f f i l ia tes, and major s tockho ld- ers all over the world. The following foreign currency loans may be granted by FCDUs of commercial banks w i thout prior BSP approval: (1) pr iva te sector loans, if they are to be serviced u s ing foreign exchange to be obtained outside the bank ing system; (2) shor t- term loans to f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for normal interbank transac t ions; (3) short-term loans to com- mod i ty and service exporters, and producers /manufac turers, provided that the loan proceeds are to be used to f inance the import costs of goods and services necessary in the production of goods. Regular un i ts of commercial banks may also grant fore ign currency loans to residents invo lv ing trade transactions. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange An EFCDU of commercial banks may inve st in fo re ign -cu r rency -denom ina ted securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws PHILIPPINES 709 Depository banks operating FCDUs or EFCDUs need to ma in ta in f u ll cover for the ir foreign currency l iab i l i t ies at all times. For FCDUs, at least 70% of the said cover must be maintained in the same currency of the liability and up to 30% may be de- nominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. Long and short foreign exchange positions of banks must not exceed 20% and 10%, respectively, of the ir total un im- paired capital. Any excess beyond the l im it must be settled da i ly. On Ju ly 31, 1997, the BSP modified the allowable net open foreign exchange position of banks. The overbought l im it was reduced to 5% capital from 20% or $10 m i l l ion (wh ichever is less) and the oversold l im it was raised to 20% from 10% of capital. On September 10, 1997, the BSP required commercial banks to subm it da i ly the ir foreign exchange po- sition, including transactions made by the ir respective subsidiaries and aff i l ia tes. On March 13, 1998, the BSP announced sanctions for the v io la t ion of open pos i t ion limits. Except as may be au thor ized by the Monetary Board, the total equ i ty inve s tmen ts in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by any inve s tment house w i th quas i- bank ing func t ions shall not at any t ime exceed 15% of the ir net wor th. Outward in- vestments by residents in amounts exceeding $6 m i l l ion require pr ior app roval and reg is tra t ion by the BSP. For amoun ts not exceeding $6 m i l l ion, the funds to be in- vested may be purchased from authorized agent banks. As a general ru le, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the pub l ic w i t h in the coun try un less such securities have been registered and permitted to be sold by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded in a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and regis- trar in the Ph i l ipp ines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesman must register w i th the SEC to do bus iness in the coun try. Exchange arrangement February 8. O f f ic ial fo rwa rd exchange cover for oil import f in an c ing was d iscon t inued. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market in s t rum en ts Controls on derivatives and other in s t rumen ts Controls on credit operations July 22. All forward transactions, inc lud ing renewals thereof, from nonresidents re- qu ire prior approval of the BSP. July 30. The amount of foreign exchange that can be sold over-the-counter w i thout prior approval was reduced to $25,000 from $100,000. Foreign exchange subs id iar ies were exempted from th is ru l ing from September 18, 1997. February 6. The issuance of peso-denominated ins trumen ts in the international capital markets, as we ll as inwa rd remittances of foreign exchange to the Ph i l ipp ines and sale thereof for pesos to the local bank ing system and resident enterprises pa r t ic ipa t ing in such a c t iv i ty sha ll require prior BSP approval. July 22. Per C ircu lar No. 135, all forward contracts to sell foreign exchange to non- residents ( in c lud ing offshore banking un i ts) w i th no f u ll de l ivery of pr inc ipa l, inc lud- ing cancellations, rollovers/renewals thereof, shall be submitted for prior clearance to the BSP. March 15. Loans of resident p r iva te sector borrowers from FCDUs and offshore sources, and non res ident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased ou ts ide the b ank ing system no longer require prior BSP approval. Foreign currency deposits are e l ig ib le as collateral for peso loans or foreign currency loans to residents and nonres i- dents. Loans of nonresidents from EFCDUs, irrespective of ma tu r i ty, no longer re- qu i re pr ior BSP approva l, provided that (1) the loan shall be serviced us ing foreign exchange purchased from outside the bank ing system; and (2) all applicable bank ing ru les and regu la t ions a re comp l ied w i t h, in c l ud i ng Single Borrower's L im i t, wh ich ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 710 PHILIPPINES Controls on direct inves tment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on personal capital movemen ts shall be defined to inc lude lendings and guarantees issued to companies, th e ir subs id i- aries, aff i l ia tes, and ma jor stockholders all over the world. September 16. Per Circular 142, an inves tment funded by fore ign exchange deposited in an inves to r 's FCDU account for inves tment purposes shall be issued a Bangko Sentral registration document, evidencing BSP reg is tra t ion only after the amount de- posited has been converted in to pesos, as certified by the bank m a i n t a i n i ng the said ECDU account. July 22. Per C ircu lar 134, banks' long foreign exchange position sha ll not go beyond 10% of the ir un impa i red cap i tal and the ir short foreign exchange position to not more than 20% of said capital. Any excess beyond the a l lowab le l im it sha ll be settled on a daily basis. July 31. Per C i rcu lar 137, banks' long foreign exchange position sha ll not go beyond 5% of the ir un impa i red cap i tal or $10 m i l l ion, wh ichever is less, and the ir short for- eign exchange position to not more that 20% of said cap i ta l, provided that these pre- scribed l im i ts w i ll be reviewed after 90 days. Changes During 1998 April 7. The amount of foreign exchange that authorized agent banks may sell to resi- dents for any nontrade purpose, w i thout need of appropr ia te documen ta t ion, was re- duced to $10,000 from $25,000. January 6. Senior bank officers responsible for the sale of foreign exchange sha ll cer t ify tha t, in cases other than LC, D/P, D/A, or OA, the or ig inal documen ts have been presented and that the bank has taken measures to ensure that the app l i- cant/importer has not purchased foreign exchange from the bank ing system in excess of the amount of the impor ta t ion as indicated in the invoice. March 13. Sanctions for the v io la t ion of the net open foreign exchange position l im i ts were announced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of February 28, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Poland is the Polish zloty. Coins made from precious metals are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The central exchange rate of the zloty is pegged to a basket of f ive currencies. The central rate is adjusted under a craw l ing peg policy at a preannounced rate. Between May 16, 1995 and February 25, 1998, the National Bank of Poland (NBP) allowed the exchange rate of the zloty at the interbank market to fluctuate w i th in margins of ±7% around the central rate. Once a day, the NBP quotes f ix ing rates (i.e., official market rates) for dollars and deutsche mark, w i th f ix ing rates for other convertible currencies determined on the basis of cross-exchange rates on international markets; f ix ing rates fluctuate w i th in a ±7% marg in around the central par i ty. On February 25, 1998, the Monetary Council declared that from February 26, 1998, exchange rate of the zloty w i ll fluctuate around the central rate at ±10%. The NBP quotes exchange rates da i ly for 20 convertible currencies, the ECU, and the SDR. Outside the interbank market, banks are permitted to set freely their buy ing and selling rates in transactions w i th their clients. The exchange rate on the foreign exchange bureau market (kantors), in wh ich na tural persons are allowed to transact freely, provided that the transaction is not a commer- cial one, is determined by market forces. No. No. There are no formal forward exchange market arrangements, but a forward market exists for the stock market. However, large commercial banks provide forward con- tracts if requested. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. There are agreements w i th Bangladesh, Brazil, Ch ina, Egypt, Ind ia, Iraq, Russ ia, the Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Tunisia, and Turkey. Ou ts tand ing balances are being settled in accordance w i th the terms of the agreements. There are inoperative agreements w i th members of the former CMEA. The au tho r i ty to make basic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests w i th parlia- ment. Regulations are promulgated by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), in cooperation w i th the president of the NBP, in the form of general foreign exchange permits, or by 711 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 712 POLAND International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) the president of the NBP in the form of ind iv idual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, and for specified groups. The procedures for issuing ind iv idual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation w i th the MOF. Decisions concerning ind iv idual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Adm in is tra t ive Court. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the NBP, foreign exchange banks, border guards, and post offices. Poland notified the IMF that, in compliance w i th UN Security Council resolutions, it had imposed and maintained a ban on trade with Iraq and on exports of certain prod- ucts to Libya. On February 11, 1997, the Polish government notified the IMF that on April 25, 1997, in line w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074, it l if ted the temporary limitation of trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina (territory under Bosnian Serbs' armed forces control), introduced on August 18, 1993. Also, on June 8, 1994, the Polish government banned, in line w i th relevant UN Security Council resolutions, exports of arms and m i l i ta ry equipment to the fo l low ing countries: Angola (for UNITA forces), Haiti, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, Somalia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Resident ind iv idua ls may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewe lry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear va lue in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Under the general foreign exchange permit, Polish nationals may take abroad up to ECU 5,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this l im i t. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange w i th in two months of re turn ing to Poland. For o f f i- cial and business trave l, allowances are based on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Nonresidents are free to take out of Poland up to ECU 2,000 or its equ iva len t; higher amounts are allowed up to the amount de- clared upon entry into the country. Nonresidents entering Poland are permitted to have up to ECU 2,000 or its equ iva lent in convertible currencies; higher amounts must be declared upon entry into the country. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Residents who are na tural persons may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts ("A" ac- counts), and these accounts may be freely credited w i th convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or deposited w i thout declaring the sources of funds. Balances in these accounts can be sold in foreign bureau markets; w i thd rawa ls in zlo- tys, converted at the preva i l ing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Funds in A ac- counts cannot be used for business activities. When leaving the coun try pe rmanen t ly, ind iv idua ls are allowed, under the general foreign exchange perm i t, to transfer all funds from th is account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 713 Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Residents ( ind iv idua ls and enterprises) ca r ry ing out economic ac t iv i ty abroad may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad to cover costs of such ac t iv i ty. The NBP must be notified about accounts opened abroad, and quarterly balances in these accounts must be reported to the NBP. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. There are two types of convertible currency accounts for nonresidents, na tura l, and ju r id ical persons: (1) unrestricted accounts ("rachunek wolny") that may be opened in any licensed foreign exchange bank; they may or may not pay interest, depending on an agreement w i th the bank. Unrestricted accounts may be credited only w i th funds that are freely transferable abroad. These accounts may also be credited w i th domestic currency that could be converted into foreign currencies and transferred abroad. The fo l low ing sources of funds allow later transfer abroad: (a) transfers from abroad or foreign currencies declared at the border; (b) claims on residents resulting from foreign transactions in goods, services, or intellectual property; (c) inheritances and bequests for foreign persons; (d) remunera t ion for legal work for residents; (e) docu- mented income from securities legally acquired in Poland; (f) reimbursements for overpaid taxes; and (g) receivables resu l t ing from court, adm in is tra t ive, or arbitrage ru l ings; and (2) "C" accounts that may be maintained only in convertible currencies; these accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on an agreement w i th the bank. There is no control on sources of funds deposited at C accounts. However, there are l im i ta t ions on transfers abroad from C accounts, and the l im i ta t ions are the same as for unrestricted accounts. These accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on an agreement w i th the bank, and they can be credited w i th f u n ds from any title, but conversion into foreign currency and/or transfer abroad is subject to authorization, except for funds freely transferable abroad (see unrestricted accounts above). Prior approval is required. Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, w i th the exception of imports of radioactive materials and m i l i tary equ ipmen t; alcoholic bever- ages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from b i tum inous m ine ra ls; gasoline and l ight oils; na tu ral gas and other gaseous hydrocarbons; and goods for indus tr ial assembly of motor vehicles. The impo r ta t ion of passenger cars and other passenger vehicles older than 10 years; t rucks, vans, other u t i l i ty cars, and passenger vehicles older than three years for trans- por ta t ion of more than 10 persons; cars w i th two-cycle engines; and combine harvest- ers is proh ib i ted. The importation of petroleum oils and oils obtained from b i tum inous minerals is sub- ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 POLAND Import taxes and/or tariffs All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. The import surcharge of 3% was eliminated on Janua ry 1, 1997. Import tar iffs are based on the Harmonized System (HS 1996) and the Com- bined Nomenclature of the EU (CN 1996), w i th six basic rates: zero on equ ipment for the disabled, m ineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; up to 3.6% on other raw materials; 7.4% to 11% on basic parts of sem if in ished and f in ished goods; 14.6% to 27.4% on indus tr ial goods; 26.6% to 40% on agr icu l ture and textile products; and 30% on luxu ry goods. Imports from developing countries are granted preferen t ial treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropical prod- ucts from chapters 6 to 24 of the HS, and many goods from chapters 32 and 94 of the HS that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland du ty free. For the remain- ing goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, du t ies are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Du t ies and taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds shou ld be repatriated immed ia te ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas No. No. No. Licenses are required for exports carried out w i th in the framework of in terna t ional agreements that s t ipu la te bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equ ipment for leasing. Licenses are required for exports of coal, petroleum oils, and oils obtained from bi- tum inous minerals; crude petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons; radioac- t ive materials; and m i l i tary equipment. Export licenses are required for goods subject to export quotas. Exports that are prohibited include (1) l ive pou l try, i.e., fow ls of the species Callus Domesticus, ducks, geese, turkeys, and guinea fowls; (2) goose eggs fresh, preserved, or cooked; and (3) trade w i th Libya w i th respect to chemical catalyz- ers, pipes and tubes, steel chains, hydraulic and gas pumps, chemical installations, laboratory equ ipmen t, and au toma t ion equ ipmen t. Exports of raw hides and skins of bovine or equine an ima ls, pickled or otherwise pre- served; raw skins of sheep and lambs; leather of bovine or equ ine an ima ls, and other an ima ls w i thout fu r; ferrous waste and scrap; smelting scrap ingots of iron and steel; and waste and scrap of copper, nickel, a lum inum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits There is no specific l im it for official and business travel. Official and business trave l- ers are allowed to take out foreign currency bought in banks up to the amounts on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Pensions Prior approval Domestic ind iv idu a ls who wish to transfer the ir pension abroad have to app ly for an ind iv idu al foreign exchange permit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 715 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No restrictions app ly to a l imony benef i ts granted to foreign na t iona ls. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated immed ia te ly. Na tu ral persons receiving proceeds wh i le they are abroad must repatriate the proceeds w i th in two months after re turn ing to Poland. Surrender requ i remen ts Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchase of Polish securities by nonresidents is free, except for shares of wh ich the freedom to purchase can be l im i ted by Po land's restrictions of foreign direct inves tmen t. Nonresidents are permitted to issue securities w i th ma tur i t ies of one year or longer; these securities must be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the overall l im it on purchase of such securities is set at ECU 300 m i l l ion a year. Since February 1, 1997, there have been no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on purchas ing foreign shares through brokerage houses authorized by the SEC. However, the NBP must be notified three months in advance of investments above ECU 50,000. In OECD countries and countries hav ing agreements on inves tment protection w i th Po- land, residents are permitted to (1) acquire stakes in foreign companies if the stake gives at least 10% of votes, and (2) purchase securities issued w i th ma tu r i ty not less than one year up to the amount of ECU 1 m i l l ion or its equ iva len t. Residents are permitted to issue securities w i th ma tu r i ty of one year and longer on foreign markets. Residents issu ing securities abroad must no t i fy the NBP w i t h in 20 days from the transac t ion. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by non res iden ts Yes. Purchase abroad by res iden ts Res iden ts are pe rm i t ted to purchase secur i t ies abroad in ma tu r i t ies longer th an one year. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 716 POLAND Sale or issue locally by nonresidents SEC approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents NBP approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents SEC approval is required. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents The NBP must be notified w i th in 20 days. To residents from nonresidents The NBP must be notified w i th in 20 days. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents There are no controls on f inanc ial credits w i th ma tur i ty of one year or more. However, financial credits w i th maturities below one year require a permit w i th the exception of authorized banks. An NBP 's foreign exchange permit is required for residents contracting f inanc ial credits w i th nonresidents, w i th the exception of (1) credits granted by authorized banks; (2) credits granted to residents by international banks guaranteed by the Council of Ministers or the NBP for financing investments in the country; and (3) credits contracted by residents abroad w i th the ma tu r i ty of one year or more from the date of contracting the credit. An NBP 's foreign exchange permit is required, w i th the exception of (1) guarantees or sureties provided by the authorized banks; (2) guarantees and sureties provided by residents to nonresidents for pe r fo rm ing f inanc ial obligations under the purchase of goods, services, and incorporeal rights; and (3) guarantees and sureties for pe r fo rm ing f inanc ial obligations of residents under fore ign contracts for goods, services, and in- corporeal rights. To residents from nonresidents n.a. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inve s tment Inwa rd direct inv e s tm ent An NBP 's foreign exchange perm it is required, w i th the exception of (1) pu rcha s ing shares and interests of companies based in OECD countries and in the countries w i th wh ich Poland has ra t i f ied agreements on the mu tual safeguard of inves tmen ts; (2) pu rcha s ing shares comp r is ing at least 10% of the total votes at respective share- holders' meetings; and (3) purchas ing or opening a branch or company and inves t- ments not exceeding ECU 1 m i l l ion in the countries w i th wh ich Poland has ra t i f ied agreements on the m u t u al safeguard of inve s tmen t s. New businesses need to register on ly w i th local cour ts, w i th the excep t ion of ( 1) mergers w i th state-owned companies if state assets are to be used for more th an six mon ths or if state assets w i ll become part of the cap i ta l, and (2) inves tmen ts in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 717 areas of air transport, broadcasting, insurance, domestic long distance or mobile tele- commun ica t ions, and gamb l ing and be t t ing. Impor ts of capital goods for new j o i nt ventures are exempt from customs duties. A l though the law does not s t ipu la te a m i n i- mum amount of capital that foreign na t iona ls must invest in Poland, the m i n im um cap i tal requirement set forth in the Polish commercial code for a l im i ted l i a b i l i ty or equ i ty company is in effect and is applied to foreign inve s tmen t. The transfer of profits f rom jo int ventures and from inves tmen ts in shares of Polish companies is not restricted, and invested cap i tal may be repatriated once ou ts tand ing obligations to creditors are discharged. An NBP 's foreign exchange perm it is required for the purchase abroad by res iden ts (na tu ral persons) of real estate located abroad at the price on the day of such purchase to ta l ing in excess of the equ iv a l ent of ECU 50,000, and for the t rans fer abroad of the foreign currency required for the purchase of such real estate. Nonresidents can acquire real estate or other immovab le property in Poland on ly w i th permission from the M in is try of the Interior, except in the form of an inher i tance. Under the Law on Acqu i s i t ion of Real Estate by Foreigners (1996), foreigners may also acquire real estate w i thout perm it if (1) it is a separate apar tmen t; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least f ive years after ge t t ing a permanent residence v isa; (3) they are married to a Polish citizen for at least two years (purchased real estate mu st form a part of ma t r imon ial commun i ty of property); or (4) real estate is purchased by non- resident legal persons for statutory purposes, and the area of real estate does not ex- ceed 4,000 square meters in urban areas. The Council of M in is ters may issue a regulation de f in ing other cases where a permit is not required, p rov id ing that the area of acquired real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban and 10,000 square meters in ru ral areas. The Council of M in is te rs may also extend the area to be acquired w i t h o ut pe rm it to 12,000 square meters in u rb an and 30,000 square meters in rural areas. An NBP foreign exchange perm it is required for the t rans fer abroad by nonres iden ts of the proceeds associated w i th the sale of real estate converted into fore ign currency. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans There are no controls on f am i ly and trade loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBU approval is required for g i f ts above ECU 10,000. To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts in fore ign exchange n .a. n.a. Un t il Janua ry 1, 1998, when the restrictions were l if ted, banks were permitted to pu r- chase securities abroad w i th in the l im i ts specified in the regulation by the president of the NBP on the k inds of securities issued abroad to be purchased by au thor ized banks. Reserve requirements Reserve requ i rement on foreign currency accounts d i f fe rs from that on z lo ty accounts. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts A bank 's open (net) foreign currency position (long or short) in relation to a single foreign currency may not exceed 15% of the bank 's capital. The president of the NBP, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 POLAND Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non res iden ts and on por tfo l io inves ted abroad on the bank 's mo t ion, may consent to a foreign currency paid in consideration for equ i ty to be included in compu ta t ion of the b ank 's fore ign currency position. There are no pension funds in Poland. Insu rance companies are not affected by the fo re ign exchange operations in the coun- t ry, and an MOF pe rm it is required to commence insu rance business. The MOF pe rm it is required for inves tmen ts by nonresidents in insu rance companies through shares a l low ing for 25%, 33%, 50%, 60%, and 75% of votes, respectively, at general share- holders' meetings. Cu r ren t ly, there are restrictions on s ta r t -up of foreign insu rance companies operation in the coun t ry (they w i ll be perm i t ted to operate as of J anu a ry 1999 under the MOF pe rm i t ). P ruden t ial regu la t ions e s tab l i sh ing l im i ts for inv e s tm ent of in su rance f u n ds in the coun t ry and abroad are p rov ided by the act on in su rance operating a c t i v i t y. Nonres iden ts are a l lowed to invest in pa r t ic ipa t ing un i ts issued by t rust fund s. There are no foreign exchange restrictions on the transfer abroad by nonres iden ts of fore ign currency pu rchase against Polish currency associated w i th rem iss ion of pa r t ic ipa t ing un i ts in t ru st f u n d s. Since March 18, 1997, insurers have been perm i t ted to purchase long-term securities traded in OECD coun tr ies or in the countries that concluded b i la te ral agreements on inve s tment protection w i th Poland rated Aaa-Baa3 by Moody 's or AAA -BBB by S&P. In the case of short-term securities, the m i n im um ra t ings required are: P r ime 1-3 (Moody 's) or A1-A3 (S&P). Insurers may invest abroad no more than 5% of the funds cover ing the ir insurance fund. L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regu la t ions on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies compos i t ion Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. n .a. n .a. No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments January 1. The import surcharge of 3% was e l im ina ted. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 1. Residents were allowed to t rans fer funds abroad to meet the ir l i ab i l i t i es to foreign en t i t ies incurred before chang ing the ir s ta tus (in terms of foreign exchange regulations) to that of resident. Foreign na t iona ls acting as members of superv isory boards or boards of directors of corporations were permitted to t rans fer the ir salaries abroad. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market i n s t r um e n ts Con tro ls on c red it opera t ions P rov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ion al inve s to rs February 1. The l im it for inves tment in securities issued in Poland by foreign en t i t ies and allowed for pub l ic t rad ing by the Polish Security and Exchange Comm iss ion was raised to ECU 300 m i l l i o n. Residents were allowed to purchase pub l i c ly traded secu- rities in OECD coun tr ies or in the countries that concluded b i la te ral agreements on inve s tment protection w i th Poland. Purchases h igher than ECU 50,000 requ ire three mon th s' notice to the NBP. February 1. Res iden ts were a l lowed to transfer deposits or sure ty deposits related to tender procedures abroad. March 18. Insurers were permitted to purchase long-term securities traded in OECD countries or in the countries that concluded b i la teral agreements on inve s tment pro- tection w i th Poland rated Aaa-Baa3 by Moody 's or AAA -BBB by S&P In the case of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 719 short-term securities, the m i n im um ra t ings required are: Prime 1-3 (Moody's) or A l- A3 (S&P). Insurers may invest abroad no more than 5% of the funds covering their insurance fund. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement February 25. The Monetary Counc il declared that effec t ive February 26, 1998, the exchange rate of the zloty w i ll f luc tua te around the central rate at ±10%. Capital transactions P rov is ions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions January 1. Con tro ls on lend ing to nonres iden ts were l i f ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of February 28, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese escudo. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Cooperative arrangement Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the M in i s t ry of Economy. The Diresao-Geral do Comercio in this m in is try is responsible for ad- m in is ter ing trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Portugal no t if ied the IMF on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were im- posed on paymen ts and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions to residents or nationals of Iraq. In addition, the movements of any funds in Portugal that are con- trolled by pub l ic authorities or companies of Libya are p roh ib i ted. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes A customs declaration is required for amoun ts exceeding Esc 2.5 m i l l i o n. The exportation or impor ta t ion by residents or nonresidents of bankno tes or coins and trave ler's checks exceeding the equ iva lent of Esc 2.5 m i l l ion must be declared to customs. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. 720 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 721 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non ta r i ff measures Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the pre- vention of commercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be required. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in cer- tain th ird countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Products of dual use may require a certificate. Imports subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions require an import license. Generally, li- censes are valid for six mon ths for customs clearance purposes. For products under EU surveillance, the appropriate import documents, when re- quired, are issued for s ta t is t ical purposes and are granted automatically in four or f ive days. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an export certificate may be required. Products of dual use may require a certificate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 722 PORTUGAL Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Restrictions apply in the case of the introduction of foreign securities issued by resi- dents of a non-EU member country that are not quoted on a recognized market of the issuer's coun try or of the country in which they are issued. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same controls as for shares or other securities of a participatory na ture apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position l im i ts No. No. Investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign investments should be registered w i th in 30 days after the operation has been made. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. The prudential m in imum own - fund requirements are applied on a nond iscr im ina tory basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 723 Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on po r t fo l io invested abroad The l im i ts were redefined on March 21, 1997, and subsequently on January 30, 1998, for pension fund s, and on February 4, 1998, for insurance companies. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad These l im i ts were redefined on the same dates as for securities issued by nonresidents and por tfo l io invested abroad. Cu r rency -ma tch ing regulations on asse ts / l iab i l i t ies composition There is a requirement of 80% of currency ma tch ing of assets owned by insurance companies and pension fund s. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The M in i s t ry of Finance issues regu la t ions on the eligible assets of insurance compa- nies and pension f u n ds and of securities inves tment fund s. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors March 21. The m ax imum l im i ts on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad by institutional investors were redefined. Changes During 1998 Capital transactions Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors January 30. The max imum l im i ts on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad by pension funds were redefined. February 4. The m ax imum l im i ts on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad by insurance companies were redefined. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Currency The currency of Qatar is the Qatar riyal. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Limited flexibility in respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The official exchange rate for the r iyal is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1 w i th in margins of ±7.25% around this rate. The Qatar Central Bank (QCB) sets daily rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in dollars are based on the QCB's buy ing and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions w i th the pub l ic. The buy ing and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the dollar. No. No. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market. O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements w i th Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are all f inanc ial transactions w i th the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. No. The QCB is the exchange control au tho r i ty, bu t, at present, there is no exchange con- trol legislation. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Finance, Economy, and Commerce. International security restrictions Financial transactions w i th the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) are proh ib i ted. In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears n.a. n.a. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade For trad ing purposes, the b u y i ng and selling of gold and precious metals require im- port licenses and are subject to customs du ty. Transactions i n v o l v i ng Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 724 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR Resident Accounts 725 No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by non- residents. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Negative l ist All imports from Iraq and Israel are proh ib i ted, as are imports of pork and its deriva- tives. Open general licenses n .a. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are generally subject to a customs tar iff of 4%, wh ich is the m in imum rate app l ied by members of the GCC. The customs tar iff on steel is 20%; on tobacco, 50%; and on alcohol, 100%. Imports from GCC member countries are exempt from tar iffs. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 QATAR Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no limitations on these payments, but paymen ts to Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, indus t ry, agr icu l ture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, who must hold at least 51% of the capital. Noncitizens may also establish companies specializing in contracting business w i th Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies, or if there is a need for the experience and technology they provide. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max,) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Rom an ia is the R om a n i an leu (p lu ral lei). The conve r t ib le rub le con t inues to be used as a u n it of account for ou t s tand ing CMEA balances. Exchange rate structure U n i t a r y. Classification Managed f loa t ing The exchange rate against the dollar (the reference exchange rate) is determined in the in te rbank foreign exchange market. The Na t ional Bank of Roman ia (NBR) in tervenes in the exchange market to adjust the exchange rate of the leu and to build up foreign exchange reserves. Since August 1997, the NBR has intensified its foreign exchange market in te rven t ions to depreciate the leu by 2% to 3% a mon th. In early 1997, the NBR reinstated dealer licenses to all commercial banks, and lifted the l im it imposed on foreign exchange bu reau s' overn ight ho ld ings of foreign exchange. Ju r id ical per- sons other th an au tho r ized commerc ial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange th rough au thor ized banks. The NBR quotes rates for 23 other currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the do l lar in the countries concerned, and for the ECU. Foreign exchange bu reaus conduct t ransac t ions on ly in foreign currency banknotes and trave ler's checks and on ly w i th na tural persons, and are free to set the ir exchange rates. Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. n .a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Paymen ts to and from coun t r ies w i th wh i ch Roman ia has b i la teral paymen ts arrange- ments are made on ly in the currency and in accordance w i th the procedures set fo r th in those arrangements. There are arrangemen ts w i th Ch ina, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Pak is tan, and some CMEA coun tr ies. There are arrangemen ts w i th A lban ia, Algeria, Costa Rica, Egyp t, Greece, Ind ia, and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Roman ia is a member of the CMEA. There are c lear ing a r rangemen ts w i th Bangladesh and CMEA coun tr ies, but they are on ly used to settle p rev ious ba lances. Barter agreements and open accounts n .a. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The NBR issues ru les and regu la t ions related to the control of foreign exchange t rans- actions, and au tho r izes a ll cap i tal transfers, in c lud ing those connected w i th inhe r i- tances and the l i q u i d a t i on of cap i tal assets owned by foreign na tu ral persons. 727 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 728 ROMANIA The M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) grants visas for certain paymen ts abroad. Domestic commercial banks are authorized by the NBR to conduct foreign exchange transac- t ions abroad for current in te rna t ional transactions. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n.a. Yes. Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade The NBR has sole au thor i ty to purchase or to sell gold in any manner. It may grant permission to certain ju r id i c al persons for such purposes. Controls on external trade There are no actual au thor iza t ions for conduc t ing external trade. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Un t il Apr il 1, 1997, resident natural persons could take out up to lei 100,000 a person a tr ip in denominations no larger than lei 5,000; on that date, the l im i ts were changed to lei 500,000 a person a trip and in denominations no larger than lei 10,000. Foreign nationals may take out the ir foreign currency deposited w i th authorized com- mercial banks or an amount equ iva lent to that wh ich they brought into Roman ia. Residents may take out $5,000 a trip. Un t il Apr il 1, 1997, up to lei 100,000 a person a tr ip in denominations no larger than lei 5,000 could be brought in; on that date, the l im it was raised to lei 500,000 a person a tr ip in denominations no larger th an lei 10,000. Na tu ral persons may bring into Romania up to the equ iva lent of $10,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) jur id ical persons who are registered in Roman ia (i.e., public ins t i tu t ions, embassies, consulates, other Roman ian representatives abroad); (2) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, c lubs, leagues, and any other prof it or nonp ro f it ju r id ical persons authorized to carry on ac- t iv i t ies w i th in the Roman ian te r r i to ry; and (3) foreign branches, subs id ia r ies, represen- tatives, and agencies. These accounts may be held by (1) Roman ian c i t izens, (2) na tu ral persons w i th fore ign c i t izensh ip, and (3) stateless persons l iv ing in Roman ia. Yes. Foreign exchange operations among residents are fo rb idden, except those au tho r ized by the NBR. Held abroad Resident persons need NBR approva l. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Full conve r t ib i l i ty is permitted for cu r rent account transac t ions. C o n v e r t i b i l i ty for cap i tal account transac t ions is l im i t ed and requ ires pr ior app roval of the NBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons N a tu r al persons ROMANIA Nonresident Accounts 729 These accounts may be held by (1) ju r id ical persons that are not registered and authorized to func t ion w i t h in the Roman ian territory; (2) embassies, consulates, or other representatives, as well as in terna t ional organizations or representatives of inter- na t ional organ iza t ions fun c t ion ing w i th in the Roman ian terr i tory; and (3) Roman ian branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies that carry out their activities and are registered abroad (except subsidiaries that require NBR au tho r iza t ion ). These accounts may be held by (1) foreign citizens wo rk ing for embassies, consulates, or other represen ta t ives, as well as in te rna t ional organ iza t ions; (2) representatives of in t e rn a t ion al o rgan iza t ions opera t ing in Roman ia; (3) other foreign c i t izens; and (4) stateless persons. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts App l ies to domestic currency obtained from legal ac t iv i t ies in Roman ia. Convertible in to foreign currency Conver t ib i l i ty is perm i t ted, provided that the accounts are established under the pro- v is ions of the Foreign Inves tment Law (1991). Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requ irement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs A bank guarantee is required before an advance payment is made whenever there is ; prev ious advance payment ou ts tand ing (i.e., goods not yet delivered). Documen ts es tab l ish ing that goods have been delivered must be presented to com- me rc ial banks. Impo r ts, in general, are not subject to licensing. The government may restrict impor ts for reasons of pub l ic hea l th, na t ional defense, and state security, in accordance w i th the p rov i s ions of the WTO. Yes. n .a. n .a. Tariff rates range between 2% and 35%, averaging about 17% for all goods on a trade- we igh ted basis. Tar iffs rang ing from zero to 40% are being applied in 1997 to cover at least 70% of all ag r icu l tu ral ta r i ff pos i t ions. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Resident j u r i d i c al persons mu st m a in t a in foreign exchange export proceeds in ac- coun ts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to operate in Roman ia but are free to use the balances in these accounts. Surrender requ i remen ts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 730 ROMANIA Documentation requirements Export licenses W i t h o ut quo tas W i th quotas No. n.a. Exports of whea t, bu t ter, a few hydrocarbon products, certain m ine ra ls, blood-based products, logs and wood products, and scrap metals were suspended, in some cases, on a temporary basis in 1996. Export restrictions on livestock, sun f lower seeds, ma ize, and wheat were e l im ina ted on May 1, 1997. On Janua ry 1, 1998, all export restrictions in the form of quotas, in c lud ing restrictions that were temporar i ly suspended in 1997, were e l im ina ted. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments and transfers must be documented. Interest paymen ts Prior approval P ro f i t /d iv idends Loans and credits from nonresidents abroad must be authorized by the NBR. Only foreign investors ho ld ing an inves to r 's certificate issued by the Roman ian De- velopment Agency may repatriate prof i ts and d iv idends. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Yes. n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The l im it is $500 a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require NBR au thor iza t ion. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require NBR au thor iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 731 Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market in s t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requ ires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. On collective inve s tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requ ires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits All commercial credits are subject to au thor iza t ion. NBR approval is required for credits of over one-year ma tu r i ty, and commercial bank approval for credits of one year or less. Financial credits Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Yes. n.a. Ou twa rd direct inves tment Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR au tho r iza t ion is required. Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Nonresidents cannot purchase real estate. Controls on personal capital movements Loans NBR authorization is required. G i f t s, endowmen ts, inhe r i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Requires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. To residents from nonresidents Se t t lemen ts of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Requ ires NBR approval and MOF endorsement. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 ROMANIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonres iden ts (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Resident banks are allowed to borrow abroad, but on ly w i th the au tho r iza t ion of the NBR. NBR au thor iza t ion is required. Banking companies are permitted to lend locally in foreign currency only for current foreign exchange operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inve s tment regu la t ions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds December 31. Roman ia 's exchange rate arrangement was reclassified as managed floating. April 1. The amount of domestic currency that resident na tu ral persons are allowed to import and export was raised. May 1. Export restrictions on livestock, sunf lower seeds, maize, and wheat were eliminated. Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exports and export proceeds Changes During 1998 }Aarch 25. Roman ia accepted the obligations of Article V I I I. January 1. All export restrictions in the form of quotas, inc lud ing those restrictions temporarily suspended in 1997, were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June J, 1996. Currency The currency of Russ ia is the Russ ian ruble. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax The Central Bank of Russ ia (CBR) announces an o f f ic ial exchange rate each day along w i th the rates at wh ich it is w i l l ing to buy and sell. The off ic ial exchange rate is based on interbank market exchange rates and is used for accounting and taxation purposes, and for operations w i th the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). For 1997, the band began at Rub 5,500-Rub 6,100 s l id ing to Rub 5,750-Rub 6,350 at the end of the year. On November 10, 1997, the CBR announced a new band of Rub 5,270-Rub 7,130 per $1 for the period 1998-2000. In addition to an active interbank market, auc t ion mar- kets are also organized in Moscow and other ma jor cities. The dollar is the in te rven- tion currency of the CBR in the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) and on other exchanges where the CBR operates. The CBR participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the dollar to smooth out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the in terbank market outside the auctions. In Ju ly 1997, the President signed in to law a b i ll impos ing a 0.5% tax on purchases of foreign currencies and foreign payment in s t rumen t s. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la te ral payment arrangemen ts Operative Inoperative A fu tures trading market has developed in Moscow and is regulated by the CBR as part of the exposure l im i ts. Forward contracts are sold by authorized banks. The CBR provides forward contracts to authorized commercial banks in con junc t ion w i th the "S" account scheme for nonresidents to repatriate the proceeds of the ir in- vestment in government securities. From Apr il 2, 1997, the share of the fo rwa rd con- tract guaranteed by the CBR was reduced to 50% f rom 65%. Beginning May 1, 1997, the m a x im um term of forward contracts, wh i ch had been f ive mon ths, became un l im- ited. Also, investors b r ing ing more than $20 m i l l ion may now opt for a new vo lun t a ry fo rwa rd contract th at w i ll have a f u ll CBR guaran tee (as opposed to 50%), and con- tracts can be made for six mon ths. S ta r t ing in 1998, the CBR is able to sell fo rwa rd exchange contracts on ly in exceptional cases. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. There were 16 a r rangemen ts at end-1997. Agreements are ma in ta ined w i th Bu lga r ia, Ch ina, Cuba, the Czech R epub l i c, Egyp t, Hung a ry, Ind i a, the Is lam ic State of A fgh an i s t an, Mongo l ia, Poland, the S lovak Re- pub l i c, S loven ia, and the Sy r ian A rab Repub l ic. C lea r ing agreements Yes. 733 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 734 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions The CBR is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, superv is ing and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, and regu la t ing banks' open foreign exchange positions. In accordance w i th Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Certain restrictions app ly against the Federal R epub l ic of Yugo s lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Domestic trade in gold is not permitted. Mone tary gold in tended to be part of the coun t ry 's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the government at world prices quoted on the London market and converted at the market exchange rate. Transactions in precious metals (gold and silver bu l l ion) require au tho r iza t ion, and transactions must be made through authorized banks possessing a special license issued by the CBR. Residents and nonresidents trave l ing to areas where the Russ ian rub le is sole legal tender are allowed to take out a max imum of Rub 500,000 in banknotes. There are no l im i ts on the amount of foreign banknotes a person may take out of the coun t ry, provided that a certificate from an au thor ized bank on the or ig in of the funds is presented to customs. n.a. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Balances on these accounts may be used for e f fec t ing current fore ign exchange trans- actions. The use of foreign exchange proceeds for cap i tal transactions, w i th the excep- tion of certain specific ind iv idual transactions, requires a CBR license. Resident natural persons may ma in ta in bank accounts abroad on ly du r ing the ir stay outside Russia for the purpose of education, emp loymen t, medical trea tmen t, or v is i t- ing. Upon return to Russ ia, bank accounts abroad must be closed, and balances must be credited to the accounts held in authorized banks operating in the terr i tory of Rus- sia. Resident ju r id ical persons, inc lud ing branches of Russ ian banks, may not m a in t a in accounts abroad w i thout special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance w i th the procedures set out in the CBR 's foreign exchange licenses. Authorized Russ ian banks are allowed to open correspon- dent accounts in the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU w i thout re- striction, provided that they comply w i th the regu la t ion on exposure l im i t s. Prior approval is requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 735 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Nonresidents may ma in ta in five types of rub le accounts: (1) "T" accounts, wh ich may be credited w i th proceeds from current international transactions ( inc lud ing proceeds from sales of goods and services to residents of Russ ia and interest earnings on the account itself), and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by the ir rep- resentative offices in Russia; (2) correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime applicable to T accounts; (3) "I" accounts, wh ich can be used for investment activities (including privatization operations); (4) nonresident accounts for na tu ral persons; and (5) S accounts for transactions invo lv ing government securi- ties. The transfer abroad of balances in T accounts and correspondent ruble accounts accumulated after June 1, 1996, is not restricted. The use of balances accumulated up to May 31, 1996, is l im i ted to domestic transactions. I accounts may be used for a wide range of inves tment activities, inc lud ing prof it and d iv idend transfers. Balances maintained in I accounts may be transferred abroad w i thout restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident na tural and ju r id ical persons may purchase foreign exchange on ly w i th rub le balances held in I accounts. Prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of dual purpose items, m i l i t a ry equ ipmen t, medicine, vodka and e thyl alcohol, indu s t r i al waste, and ozone-destructive substances. Yes. Most customs duties range from 5% to 15%, but some tariffs can be up to 30%. The fo l low ing imports are exempt from duties: medicine, medical supplies and equ ipmen t, children's articles, and machinery. Imports from CIS countries are exempt from duties. Imports of commodities from developing countries (except those subject to excise duties) attract customs duties at a rate of 75% of the basic rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements The repatriation ratio is 100%. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 736 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export licenses W i th quotas Export taxes Residents must sell 50% of export earnings through authorized banks. CBR permission is required for foreign exchange transactions associated w i th deferred paymen ts for exports of goods from Russia for a period exceeding 180 days and for deferrals granted to residents to make advance paymen ts against deliveries of imported goods exceeding 180 days. Export l icens ing is l im i ted to a small group of products (e.g., m i l i ta ry equ ipment and arms, precious metals and stones, rare an ima ls and floral species, and dua l-purpose items). Export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Economic Relations in accordance w i th application procedures established by the government. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv i s ib les are not restricted. Purchase of foreign exchange for all bona fide inv i s ib le transac t ions from authorized banks is allowed w i th the proper documen ta t ion. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les, except those from bank ing services, are subject to the sur- render requ iremen t. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents can purchase from residents securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange w i th foreign exchange, as we ll as securities denom ina ted in rub les w i th rub les, pro- vided that the residents obtain a license from the CBR for these transactions. No prior au thor iza t ion is required to purchase securities denominated in rub les w i th rubles. Securities denominated in rubles or in foreign exchange may be purchased w i th funds from type T rub le accounts. Securities denominated in foreign exchange or in rub les w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than one year may be purchased w i th funds from type I accounts as we ll as from ruble correspondent accounts of nonres ident banks. The parties shall no t i fy the Federal Securities Market Comm iss ion (FKRTSB) of transac t ions invo lv ing the purchase by nonres iden ts of securities issued by residents. Nonresidents can sell to residents securities denominated in foreign exchange for for- eign exchange, as well as securities denominated in rubles for rubles, provided the residents have a CBR license a l low ing such t ransac t ions. The sale by nonres iden ts of securities denominated in rub les for rub les does not requ i re pr ior au tho r i z a t ion. The parties to transac t ions sha ll no t i fy the FKRTSB of conc luded t ransac t ions for the pu r- chase by residents of securities issued by nonresidents. Securities issued by nonres iden ts are perm i t ted to c i rcu la te or be i n i t i a l ly placed in the securities market after reg is tra t ion of the ir prospectus w i th the FKRTSB. The face v a lue of these securities shou ld be denom ina ted in rub les. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 737 Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of securities are credited to foreign exchange accounts opened by nonresidents in authorized banks, from wh ich they may be freely transferred abroad. Rub le proceeds from the sale of securities and from securities is- sues may be credited to type T ruble accounts of nonresidents opened in authorized banks, or to rub le correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. Purchase abroad by residents Prior CBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBR approval is required. Proceeds from the sale are credited to current foreign ex- change accounts of residents. Exports of securities by residents require prior authori- zation from the MOF and the State Customs Committee. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents For nongovernment in s t rumen t s, the same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. The purchase by nonresidents of government short-term bonds (GKOs) and federal bonds (OFZs) is carried out from type S accounts. Nonresidents may not purchase more than 20% of an issue and may not invest funds for a term of fewer than two months. The repatriation of profits is restricted by the size of compensation transactions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Purchase abroad by residents The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations app ly as for shares or other securities of a participating na ture. On collective inves tment securities Transactions w i th nonresidents in foreign exchange may be carried out only if resi- dents have au tho r iza t ion from the CBR to conclude such transactions. The parties should no t i fy the FKRTSB of concluded transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents The FKRTSB should be no t if ied of purchases by nonresidents of collective inves tment securities issued by residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Collective investment securities issued by nonresidents require a registration prospec- tus for the securities w i th the FKRTSB. The face value of these securities must be denominated in rubles. Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of these securities must be credited to for- eign exchange accounts and may be freely transferred abroad. Residents need prior au thor iza t ion from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange in order to purchase these securities abroad. Funds for these purchases may be transferred from current foreign exchange accounts. Res iden ts need prior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR to purchase securities denominated in foreign exchange in Russ ia. The sale abroad by residents of collective investment securities for foreign exchange and the transfer of proceeds from the sale require prior au thor iza t ion from the CBR. Proceeds from the sale are credited to current foreign exchange accounts. Collective inves tment securities issued by a resident may circulate abroad, provided FKRTSB approval is granted. Residents may issue collective investment securities abroad w i th prior authorization from the CBR. The export by residents of collective inves tment securities requires prior au thor iza t ion from the CBR and the State Customs Committee. Purchases in foreign exchange are permitted, provided residents have prior au tho r iza- tion from the CBR. The purchase of derivatives w i th rubles may be carried out freely from type T ruble accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 738 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by res iden ts Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d irect inv e s tm ent Inw a rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds from sales of foreign exchange are allowed, provided the residents have prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the CBR. Foreign exchange proceeds may be freely trans- ferred abroad. Rub le proceeds from sales may be used on ly w i th in the territory of Russ ia or may be credited to rub le correspondent accounts of nonresident banks. Purchases are pe rm i t ted, provided pr ior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR to t rans fer fo re ign exchange is granted. The t rans fer of funds to purchase der iva t ives abroad must be carried out from foreign exchange accounts. Sales are perm i t ted w i th pr ior au tho r iza t ion f rom the CBR. The t rans fer of proceeds f rom the sales requires pr ior au tho r i z a t ion from the CBR. Proceeds mu st be credited to cu r rent fore ign exchange accoun ts. Credits in the form of p repayment imported commod i t ies w i th de l ive ry w i t h in 180 days may be extended on ly after prior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR. Resident legal en t i t ies may borrow in the form of deferred payment for commod i t ies exported by the res ident for a period of more th an 180 days on ly af ter prior au tho r iza- t ion f rom the CBR. Credits for a term of more than 180 days may be extended on ly after prior au tho r iza- t ion from the CBR. Res iden ts may borrow for a term of more than 180 days on ly after prior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR. Guaran tees in foreign exchange are freely extended to res iden ts by authorized banks that have the requ is i te bank ing license from the CBR. The performance of ob l iga t ions under bank guarantees, as well as under surety agreements in wh ich the par ty extend- ing the surety is a res ident but not an au tho r ized bank, may be carried out on ly af ter pr ior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR. Inve s tmen ts mu st be au thor ized by the CBR. Inve s tment effected th rough jo int ven tures or th rough ou t r ight owne r sh ip is not re- stricted, except in bank ing, where it is l im i ted to 12% of the aggregate authorized cap i ta l; exploration of na tu ral resources, where a special license is required; or land- ownersh ip, where it is p roh ib i ted. Enterprises w i th foreign capital shares must register w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy. Inves tmen ts exceeding Rub 100 m i l l ion require a perm it from the Counc il of M in is te rs. Foreign direct inves tmen ts are accorded the same ru les and p r iv i leges w i th regard to property owne rsh ip and economic a c t iv i t i es as those accorded to residents. Foreign direct inves tmen ts may be na t iona l ized or ex- propr ia ted on ly in exceptional cases in accordance w i th legislation, and, in such cases, the inves tor is en t i t led to compensation. Prov is ions protecting foreign inve s tmen t, in c lud ing a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign inves tment for a three-year pe- riod f rom regulatory acts that wou ld adversely affect the ir ac t iv i t ies and a prov is ion that any res tr ic t ions on ac t iv i t ies of foreign investors can be introduced on ly by Rus- sian law or by pres iden t ial decree. L iqu ida t ion requires p r ior au tho r iza t ion from the CBR. The t rans fer abroad of pro- ceeds is carried out by se l l ing rub le f u n ds credited to type I rub le accounts for foreign exchange, wh i ch may be freely exported. Purchase abroad by residents CBR app roval is required. Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Landowne r sh ip is p roh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 739 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require a special license. Au thor ized banks may open correspondent accounts in banks abroad pursuant to the terms specified in the bank ing license issued by the CBR (restrictions may be imposed on the number of banks that may open correspondent accounts). The opening of other types of accounts in banks abroad requires prior au thor iza t ion from the CBR. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange A CBR license is required. Purchase of loca l ly issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position l im i ts A CBR license is required. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The l im i ts are set in absolute amounts and d i f fer according to the banks' capital as fo l lows: (1) for capital up to Rub 1 billion, the l im it is $100,000, wh i le the limit/capital ratio may not be less than 33%; (2) for capital of Rub 1 to Rub 5 billion, the l im it is $500,000, wh i le the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 165%; (3) for capital of Rub 5 to Rub 10 b i l l ion, the limit is $1 m i l l ion, wh i le the l im i t/ capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 66%; and (4) for banks w i th capital above Rub 10 billion, individual limits are set by the CBR. Provisions specific to institutional investors Investment by ins t i tu t ional investors in securities denominated in foreign exchange requires prior authorization from the CBR. L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad n.a. L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Cu r rency -ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Resident insurance companies may invest up to 20% abroad. Resident insurance companies must invest at least 80% locally, n.a. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The federal law governing the securities market prohibits the application of preference to one po ten t ial owner over another in the purchase of securities to nonresidents. Exchange arrangement April 2. The share of forward contracts guaranteed by the CBR was reduced to 50% from 65%. Changes During 1997 May 1. The l im it on the term of forward contracts was eliminated. July 31. A 0.5% tax on the purchase of foreign exchange was introduced. November 10. The CBR announced an exchange rate band of Rub 5,270-Rub 7,130 per $1 for the period 1998-2000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined freely in the exchange market in wh ich commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus operate. Banks may apply a variable commission to these operations. Ou tward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 4%, except for export f inanc ing loans (disbursements and repayments). The Na t ional Bank of Rwanda (NBR) does not announce off ic ial exchange rates, but it calculates and pub l ishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The NBR maintains agreements w i th the central banks of the CEPGL, Bu rund i, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMES A are made through the COMES A 's clearinghouse. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists w i th Uganda, but it is not operational. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Foreign exchange control is vested in the NBR, wh ich has delegated au tho r i ty to authorized banks to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Pr iva te Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Con tro ls on domestic owne r sh ip and/or trade Trade is restricted to dealers who are approved by the re levant m in i s t ry. Con tro ls on external trade Impor ts and exports of gold require a dec lara t ion. 740 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 741 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency A declaration is required for exports of banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of $100. Only foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer may be exported f ree ly. Foreign exchange declared to customs on entry in the coun t ry or in amoun ts not ex- ceeding the equ iva lent of $10,000 may be reexported. Declaration is required for the import of banknotes exceeding the equ iva lent of $100. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P re sh ipment inspec t ion Imports through banks must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice stating the f.o.b. value of the merchandise. Impor ts w i th an f.o.b. va lue of $10,000 or more ($5,000 for fresh foods tu f fs and Pharmaceuticals) and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an in te rna t ional agency w i th regard to the qua l i ty, qu an t i ty, price, and customs ta r i ff of the goods before being shipped to Rwanda, unless otherwise provided by the NBR. On Augu st 27, 1997, the inspection l im i ts were lowered to $5,000 ($3,000 for fresh foods tu f fs and Pharmaceu t ica ls). Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist All impor ts of narcotics are proh ib i ted. Certain categories of imports, such as explo- sives and weapons, require pr ior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 742 RWANDA origin and value. For reasons of hea l th, the importation of human or ve ter inary medi- cines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fung ic ides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the re levant pro fo rma invoices by the M in is t ry of Health. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs A f i le processing charge of 1% of the f.o.b. va lue is applied to oil products. On August 27, 1997, the f i le processing charge was reduced to 0.9% of the f.o.b. va lue (w i th a m in imum charge of RF 60,000) from 1% for essential basic foods tuff. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in seven days from the date of paymen t. Surrender requirements On December 26, 1997, the surrender requirement for coffee and tea export receipts was e l im ina ted. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports, except trade samples and personal and household effects of travelers, are subject to prior declaration to the authorized banks. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. A tax is levied on coffee exports. This taxa t ion procedure varies, depending on the realized in te rna t ional export price. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Payments are permitted on loans for wh ich the NBR was given prior no t if ica t ion of the loan contract and for which the funds were in i t ia l ly received by a local commercial bank. Approval by an authorized bank is required. Approval is subject to appropriate audit- ing of the accounts and a decision by the board of directors of the company. Official travel requires a travel authorization by the government or by an authorized agency. Daily allowances are granted for such travel. Businessmen may purchase up to $10,000 in payment ins trumen ts for each t r ip, but the number of business trips is not restricted. A max imum allowance of $4,000 a tr ip is granted for tourism. Residents may purchase up to $20,000 w i thout suppor t ing documents; prior au thor i- zation by the NBR is required for transfers of $20,000 or more. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 743 S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Unless waived by the NBR, purchases of foreign exchange for educational expenses are authorized w i th in a limit of $25,000 a year a student on presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Fam i ly maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contributions, may be transferred abroad. The net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, may also be transferred abroad af ter payment of taxes. A fee of 0.4% is levied on transfers abroad. Payment of the em- ployee's share of social security con tr ibu t ions and taxes is required. Yes. Prior authorization from the NBR is required for amoun ts exceeding $20,000 a year. Authorized banks may freely approve requests for foreign exchange to cover expenses for a resident's fam i ly members l iv ing abroad for up to $1,000 a resident a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds may be sold in the domestic foreign exchange market or may be held in for- eign exchange accounts w i th banks located in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Prior au thor iza t ion of the NBR is required. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 744 RWANDA Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Controls on credit operations All credits are subject to NBR approval. Controls on direct investment Outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 4%, except for export f inanc ing loans (disbursements and repayments). Outward direct inves tment Inves tmen ts are subject to NBR approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Repatriation of investments by nonresidents is governed by the inves tment code and must be registered by authorized banks. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Requires prior approval of the NBR. Sale locally by nonresidents Requires prior approval of the NBR. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Requires prior approval of the NBR. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Requires the approval of the NBR. Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Requires the approval of the NBR. Transfer of assets Requires the approval of the NBR. Transfer abroad by emigrants Requires the approval of the NBR. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrow ing is allowed under certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed under certain conditions. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits A prudential l im it of 20% of the bank 's capital and reserves is applied. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments August 27. The inspection l im it was lowered to $5,000 from $10,000 (and to $3,000 from $5,000 for fresh foodstuffs and pharmaceu t ica ls). The f i le processing charge was also reduced to 0.9% of the f.o.b. value from 1%. Exports and export proceeds December 26. The surrender requirement for tea and coffee exports was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. K i t ts and Nev is is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i t a ry. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of ECCB countries mu st be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. K i t ts and Nevis is a member of the CARICOM. Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries. Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id i c al persons N a tu r al persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly No. No. No. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts U.S. dollar accounts may be operated f ree ly, but perm iss ion of the MOF is required to operate o ther fore ign currency accounts. These accounts may be credited only w i th foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be freely debited. A m i n im um balance of US$1,000 must be ma in- tained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Permission is normally confined to ma jor exporters. Held abroad n .a. 745 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 746 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts is norma l ly confined to foreign na- tionals not ordinarily residing in St. K i t ts and Nevis. Same regulations apply as for residents. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. Advance import payments exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Payments for authorized imports payable in foreign currency are permitted on presen- tation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Ind iv idual licenses are required for imports that compete w i th local products unless they come from another member country of the CARICOM. Positive list Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas n.a. n.a. Most goods are imported under open general licenses. n.a. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. K i t ts and Nevis applies the GET of CARICOM, wh ich ranges up to 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. However, the regulations governing export licenses are not forma l ly adhered to. n.a. Export duties are levied on a few products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 747 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments P ro f i t /d iv idends E f fec t ive October 1, 1997, pr ior approval of the MOF is required for all transac t ions exceeding EC$250,000. All paymen ts and transfers, except for the rem i t tance of prof- its and d iv idend s, are subject to qu an t i t a t ive and ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. Profits and d iv idends may be remitted in f u l l, subject to con f i rma t ion of registration by the Commissioner of In land Revenue for income tax purposes. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inve s tmen ts n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited in to an approved U .S. do l lar account if the proceeds are in U .S. dollars. Controls on capital and money market instruments Since October 1, 1997, ind iv idu a ls are permitted to purchase up to EC$250,000 w i th- out exchange control approval. All ou tward capital transfers exceeding that amount require exchange control approval. Capital Transactions On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase loca l ly by non res iden ts For purchases of equ i ty shares, an A l i e n 's Land Ho ld ing license is required. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents. Bonds or other debt securities n .a. On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations app ly as for capital market securities. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regu la t ions app ly as for capital market securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regu la t ions apply as for capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents The seller of the in s t rumen ts has to be licensed under the Bank ing Act, and transfers abroad in excess of EC$250,000 requ ire approval from the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Presen t ly, there is no market in de r iva t ives and o ther in s t rumen t s. MOF app roval and payment of a 2.5% A l i e n 's Loans Levy is required for these t ran sac t ion s. To residents from nonresidents App rov al f rom the MOF is requ ired for foreign exchange exceeding EC$250,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 748 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Approval from the MOF is required for foreign exchange exceeding EC$250,000. Approval from the MOF is required for foreign exchange exceeding EC$250,000. Investments in equity require an A l ien 's Land Holding license. The remittance of proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the inves tmen t. The transfer of proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requires MOF approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchas ing real estate abroad for p r iva te purposes is not norma l ly permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in fore ign exchange MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% A l ien 's Loans Levy are required. MOF approval is requ ired, wh ich is granted on ly in the case of projects generating foreign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign currencies requires MOF approval. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in fore ign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to institutional investors No regulations exist. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Payments for invisible transactions and October 1. The l im it for the purchase of foreign exchange w i thout MOF approval was current transfers increased to EC$250,000 from EC$ 100,000. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Luc ia is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Pegged The Eastern Caribbean do l lar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payment arrears Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM, except for Guy an a, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements w i th resi- dents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. When ju s t i f i ed by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make paymen ts for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to wh ich payment is to be made. St. Lucia is a member of the CARICOM. St. Lucia participates in the CMCF. The M in is t ry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating (MFSN) applies exchange control to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly He ld abroad Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Permission is granted in special cases where the app l icant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent payments abroad. 749 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 750 ST. LUCIA Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to bold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are perm i t ted, but pr ior approval is requ ired. External accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars may be opened for nonresident ind i- v idua ls and companies w i th the approval of the MFSN. These accounts may be cred- ited only w i th foreign draf ts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the MFP, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes. Approval is required for transactions exceed- ing EC$250,000. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. For advance paymen ts exceeding EC$250,000, pr ior approval from the MFSN is required. Advance impo rt deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requ iremen ts P resh ipment inspection Letters of credit Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and subm iss ion of certified customs en try. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Certain agricultural and manufactured products require ind iv idual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Licenses w i th quo tas n .a. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. Lucia applies the CAR ICOM 's CET of up to 30% (except for certain ag r icu l tu ral goods). A customs service charge of 2% of the c .i .f. va lue is levied on all impor ts except for fer t i l izers, for wh ich the rate is 0.2%. Live an ima ls, m i lk, meat, f i sh, eggs, fer t i l izers, and most agricultural and manu fac tu r ing mach ine ry are exempt from import du t ies. Goods produced in CARICOM countries may enter duty-free. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. State import monopoly The impor ta t ion of selected consumer items (e.g., rice, f lour, and sugar) in bu lk fo rm is a state monopoly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 751 Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Export licensing is required for certain primary products. n.a. n.a. A du ty of 2.5% is levied on the f.o.b. value of banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is applied to reexports of petroleum. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Effective November 15, 1997, prior approval is required for transactions exceeding EC$250,000, except for payments for travel, subscriptions, and membership fees. Profit/dividends Quantitative limits W i th the approval of the MFSN, profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to confirma- tion by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been dis- charged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be h igh, the MFSN reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Requirements on proceeds of up to EC$250,000 were abolished on November 15, 1997. Surrender requirements No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Outward transfers exceeding EC$250,000 require exchange control approval. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 ST. LUCIA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Yes. n.a. These transactions require approval from the MFSN (a person who has not resided in St. Lucia for three consecutive years is declared a nonresident). n.a. n .a. n.a. These credits require approval of the MFSN. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other f inanc ial intermediary) to the MFSN on behalf of the applicant. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a h igher rate than residents. Sale locally by nonresidents Amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000 require approval for repatriation of estate proceeds. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Yes. Yes. There are controls on loans exceeding EC$250,000. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 753 Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts November 15. Amoun ts exceeding EC$250,000 for current and capital transactions require MFSN approval. Imports and import payments July 1. The GET was reduced by 5% to 30% (except for certain agricultural goods). Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers November 15. Repa tr ia t ion requirements on proceeds of up to EC$250,000 were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean do l lar, wh ich is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Forward exchange market The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the CARICOM may be made in any currency. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Payment arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears n.a. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num isma t ic purposes on ly. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for industrial purposes on ly. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports n.a. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Yes. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 754 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 755 Ju r id ical persons N a tu r al persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. These accounts may be opened by nonresidents w i th the authorization of the MOF and credited only w i th funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except w i th the prior permission of the MOF, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign cur- rency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization from the MOF. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the MOF. External accounts may be opened for nonresidents w i th the authorization of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited w i th inward remittances in foreign currency and w i th transfers from other external accounts. Cred- its and debits to these accounts are subject to the same regulations as for foreign ex- change accounts. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Imports and Import Payments No. n .a. Effective January 1, 1998, advance paymen ts for imports over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive l ist Nega t ive list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, a license. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of some goods that compete w i th typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. n.a. Imports of goods that compete w i th locally made products are prohibited in some cases. n.a. n.a. n.a. Effective Janua ry 1, 1998, the import tariff rates range from zero to 20%. In addition, impor ts are subject to a consump t ion tax ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the ta r i f f - inc lu s ive va lue of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tar iffs and are subject only to the consumption tax. A customs service charge of 2.5% is imposed on the c.i.f. va lue of all imported goods, w i th cer ta in exceptions. Taxes collected through the exchange system n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses All export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of receipt. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of certain agricul- tural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the M in is try of Trade, wh ich, in some cases, has delegated its au tho r i ty to the St. V incent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. A 2% export duty is levied on bananas. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Effec t ive January 1, 1998, other payments exceeding EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Approval is granted routinely. The limits are the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area and EC$6,000 a year for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test These allocations may be increased w i th the authorization of the MOF. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are norma l ly not permitted to purchase fore ign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 757 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required, To residents from nonresidents n.a. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. n.a. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations re- quires the approval of the MOF. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial t rea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 758 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Imports and import payments January 1. The import tar iff rate range was narrowed to zero to 25% from zero to 35%. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments Changes During 1998 January 1. Advance payments for imports over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. January L The import tariff rate range was narrowed to zero to 20% from zero to 25%. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The l im it for payments requ ir ing prior approval was raised to EC$250,000 from EC$ 100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Currency The currency of Samoa is the Samoa tala. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed re la t ionsh ip w i th a weighted basket of currencies of Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the au tho r i ty to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket w i t h in a margin of up to 2%. Exchange tax An exchange levy of 1% is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Overall respons ib i l i ty for the adm in is t ra t ion of exchange control rests w i th the CBS, wh ich delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In pr inc ip le, all paymen ts to nonresidents require the CBS's approval. However, the ANZ Bank (Samoa) Ltd., the Na t ional Bank of Samoa, and the Pacific Commercial Bank — the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain paymen ts w i thout l im i ts and others up to specified amounts. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Up to SA$2,000 may be exported. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bankno tes equ iva lent to SA$ 1,000 a person a trip. Effec t ive February 1, 1997, the prevailing l im it on foreign currency notes allowed to Samoan residents for traveling abroad was raised to SA$5,000. Imports are p roh ib i ted, except for resident travelers who may take out foreign banknotes equ iva lent to SA$2,000 a person a t r ip as part of their foreign currency allowance. 759 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 SAMOA Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, w i th the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency accounts w i th one of the three commercial banks. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresidents who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments. Prior approval is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Yes. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement The limit for advance payments is SA$ 10,000. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No limits are imposed on imports under an open account. However, payment requires CBS approval. The establishment of LCs for imports is not required unless specifi- cally requested by a supplier. Letters of credit Imports w i th a c.i.f. value of more than SA$ 15,000 must be financed w i th an LC. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or hea l th. The importation of used cars requires prior approval of the CBS. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. Most products are subject to a tariff of 35%. Rates on machinery and agricultural inpu ts are generally levied at 20% or lower, wh i le those on motor vehicles are levied at 50%. In addition, an import excise tax is levied on the value of certain imports, in c lu s ive of import duties. For passenger cars, the excise is either 50%, 60%, or 70%, depend ing on engine size. Approved enterprises producing for export may receive f u ll or par t ial exemption from duties and excise taxes on inpu ts and capital equ ipmen t. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 761 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i t h in three mon ths of the date of sh ipmen t, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, wh ich must be surrendered to the authorized bank w i th in four weeks of the date of sh ipmen t. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of SA$250. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses W i thout quotas All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low qua l i ty, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest paymen ts Prior approval Profit/dividends Prior approval All paymen ts and transfers are subject to prior approval. Payments for certain inv is i- bles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Payments in excess of these l im i ts, as well as payments for all other inv is ib les, require the prior approval of the CBS, wh ich is granted when applications are supported by documen- tary proof that capital transactions are not involved. The CBS's approval process gov- erning the remittance of inv is ib le payments is concerned only w i th whether a transaction is bona fide. Payments other than those for medical treatment, study abroad, subscriptions and membersh ip fees, and pensions are subject to quan t i ta t ive and ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on remittances of interest paymen ts on overseas loans. CBS approval is required. A 15% w i thho ld ing tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source. Remittances must be approved by the CBS. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Residents and expatriates trave l ing overseas for private purposes are entitled to a for- eign currency allowance equ iva lent to SA$400 a person a day, subject to a l im it of SA$5,000 a person a tr ip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50% of the adult allowances. A daily allowance of SA$500 a person is allotted for business travel, w i th a l im it of SA$6,000 a trip. A l though no l im it is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remit- tances. There is no specific l im it for these remittances, but the amount requested must be supported by documen tary evidence con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational in s t i tu t ion abroad and costs are in l ine w i th the preva i l ing costs in the coun t ry of s tudy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 SAMOA Subscriptions and membership fees Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings No specific l im it exists, but amounts requested must be supported by documentary evidence. Expatriate workers w i th local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of the ir net earnings on a fo r tn igh t ly or mon th ly basis. Earnings not repatriated du r ing the contract may be repatriated at the end of the contract. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no restrictions for nonresidents, but residents require approval from CBS. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Authorized banks may approve transfers of g if ts to relatives and dependents, either for special fam i ly occasions or for ma in tenance, up to SA$500 a person a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the CBS on a case-by-case basis. Credit card use abroad Credit cards may be used outside Samoa only for obtaining transport and other travel services. Applicants are required to subm it charge vouchers when app ly ing for ap- proval to remit funds in reimbursement of charges incurred outside Samoa. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers mus t, on the ir re turn, sell to the banks all unused foreign exchange brought in. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions All ou tward capital transfers by residents require approval of the CBS. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 763 Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n .a. n .a. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations Credits to residents require CBS approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. Investments require CBS approval. Yes. Repatriation of investments require CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBS approval. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. n .a. Lending locally in foreign exchange n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 764 SAMOA Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the CBS. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 1. The limit on foreign currency notes allowed to Samoan residents for traveling abroad was raised to the equivalent of SA$5,000 a person a trip from SA$ 1,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the Italian lira. The monetary agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to Italian coinage; these coins will be legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Foreign exchange transactions are conducted through commercial banks w i thout re- strictions at rates quoted in Italian markets. No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks w i thout restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire through foreign accounts. No. The Central Bank of San Marino (CBSM) may grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions; currently, Sammarinese banks may maintain ac- counts only w i th f inanc ial institutions in Italy. As a result, foreign exchange transac- tions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buy ing foreign exchange at rates similar to those quoted in Italy and to conducting third-country transactions through I ta l ian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, w i th settlement effected through authorized Italian intermediaries (the Bank of I ta ly, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion). Direct settlements were authorized under Italian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990, which allowed residents to draw on their own external accounts. However, such settlements have not yet been used. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade n.a. No. n.a. 765 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 766 SAN MARINO Controls on external trade International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Finan- cial and Exchange Relations. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Residents are free to ma in ta in any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresidents are free to ma in ta in any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. Customs duties on imports from outside the EU are collected by EU customs au thor i- ties on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the I ta l ian VAT, but the average effec- tive rate is about 4% lower. Sales taxes levied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the pub l ic sector. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports to Italy are not regulated, wh i le exports to th i rd countries are governed by relevant Italian regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system SAN MARINO 767 All exports of products listed in Decree No. 68 require licenses, wh i le other exports do not require authorization. n.a. n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, w i th few exceptions, are not restricted. No. n.a. Inves tmen ts require government approval, wh ich is based on conformity w i th long- term developmental and environmental policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment w i th national f i rms. No. Yes. Purchases require approval from the Council of Twelve. Approval is granted on a case-by-case basis. Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inve s tment regu la t ions Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 768 SAN MARINO Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe dobra. There are four exchange rates: the official, the exchange bureau, the commercial mar- ket, and the parallel market rates. Occasional spreads of more than 2% result between these rates. The indicative exchange rate of the dobra is determined daily as a weighted average of the exchange rates of the exchange bureaus, commercial banks, and the parallel market of the previous day. The intervention currency is the dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the dollar for the curren- cies concerned. The taxation system d iffers for import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrange- ments are as follows: when an LC is opened, a quarterly rate equivalent to 0.5% (m in imum of $25 and max imum of $500) of the import value is charged and is pay- able with an additional commission of 0.5% to the Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (CB). A stamp of du ty of 0.25% is also payable, as well as a postage levy of $2. On foreign checks for collection, commercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a mini- mum of $25 and a max imum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened and an addi- tional fee of 0.125% when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The CB may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions are to be made. No. All foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the CB, wh ich applies the ex- change controls flexibly. All exchange payments must be made through the CB, w i th the exception of 50% of earnings retained by producer-exporters for import payments. Import and export licenses are freely granted by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Yes. n.a. 769 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 770 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade n .a. Controls on external trade The export and impo rt of gold require CB au tho r iza t ion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical persons The CB establishes the m a x im um amount that may be exported. Resident Accounts Domestic accounts in foreign currency, other than those of credit in s t i tu t ion s, may be freely opened on ly by export enterprises that are also producers, but the u t i l iza t ion of such accounts for mak ing transfers abroad needs au thor iza t ion on a case-by-case basis from the CB. Na tu ral persons Ind iv idua ls are not allowed to hold foreign currency deposits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requ iremen ts Advance payment requirement Advance impo rt deposits Producers of exported goods may retain 50% of their export proceeds in accounts w i th banks, inc lud ing those abroad (if they are correspondent banks of the CB). The u t i l i- zation of such amoun ts of currency is confined to the impor ta t ion of products and equ ipment necessary for productive ac t iv i t ies. W i thout the au thor iza t ion of the CB, residents may not make foreign currency depos- its or open or u t i l ize bank accounts outside the country. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts may be freely opened and credited or debited, inc lud ing for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand accounts or have a term of up to one year. Imports and Import Payments No. n .a. Prepayment for impor ts is permitted only through the opening of LCs or through ad- vance transfer when agreed upon by the CB. When importers open LCs, the In te rna t ional Bank requires them to lodge a non- interest-bearing deposit in domestic currency of up to 100% of the va lue of the LCs, depending on the cred i twor th iness of the operator. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom i c i l i a t ion requ i remen ts n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 771 Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All individuals and productive entities are permitted to engage in import activity. Medicines may be imported by the public pharmaceutical enterprise and the private pharmaceutical sector. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. State import monopoly Fuels and lubricants are imported by the public fuel enterprise. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated. However, producer-exporters may retain 50% of export proceeds in foreign exchange in bank accounts, including those abroad w i th correspondent banks of the CB, to meet their import requirements. Exporters may retain 50% of export proceeds and must surrender the other 50% to the CB. n.a. n.a. n.a. All exports require an export license specifying the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. n.a. n.a. Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 0.125% is charged on the collection of export proceeds, with a m in imum of $25 and a max imum of $300 when the LC is opened, and an additional commission of 0.125% when funds are received. A postage levy of $7.50 is also charged. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for other invisibles are approved within limits established by the CB. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 0.5%. In addition, commercial banks charge a postage levy of $2 for clients (and $4 for others) on all transactions. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established before independence have been suspended. n.a. Repatriation of profits of up to 15% a year of the investment value is permitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad Yes. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for purposes of tourism are limited, al- though airfares may be paid in domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Transfers in excess of limits set by the CB for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate are approved in bona fide cases. Yes. At the beginning of the school year, a student is granted permission to transfer a vari- able amount to pay for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional transfers may be granted if approved by the M in is t ry of Education and Culture. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are freely allowed. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance w i th the terms of their contracts. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the CB, w i th the exception of producers-exporters, who may retain 50% of export proceeds to meet their import requirements. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct inves tment Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other m in- ing industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 773 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The requirements are 30% on foreign exchange deposits (the requirement was reduced from 50% on April 4, 1996) and 15% on dobra deposits. Liquid asset requirements Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Currency The currency of Saudia Arabia is the Saudi Arab ian r iya l. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Limited flexibility in respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control The exchange rate of the Saudi Arabian r iyal is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. The intervention currency is the dollar, to wh ich a close relationship is maintained. The Saudi Arabian riyal rate against the dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). The SAMA 's middle rate, wh ich has been stable since June 1986 at SRls 3.745 per $1, serves —together w i th the SAMA 's selling and buy ing rates —as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. Banks are permitted to charge up to 0.125% above and below the SAMA 's buy ing and selling rates. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions w i th (and the use of the currency of) Israel are prohibited. No. Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions There have been restrictions on transactions w i th Iraq since September 1990. In compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions w i th respect to the former Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/ Montenegro), effective September 15, 1992. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may import and export gold in any form, except manufac tured gold and jewe lry, which are subject to a 12% customs du ty. Gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 774 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts 775 SAUDI ARABIA Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts may be opened with permission of the SAMA. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts may be opened with permission of the SAMA. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Yes. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging from zero to 12%. For a few goods, the rate is 20% and for tobacco products, 50%. Imports from member countries of the GCC are exempt from duties, provided that at least 40% of value added is effected in these countries and that at least 51% of the capital of the produc- ing f i rm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 776 Export licenses Export taxes SAUDI ARABIA Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is re- stricted to Saudi Arabian nationals, Saudi Arabian corporations and ins t i tu t ions, and citizens of the GCC countries. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is allowed via special purpose vehicles (country fund ), authorized by the SAMA and established and managed by Saudi American banks. There are no restrictions on portfolio inves tment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the Minister of Commerce to sell or issue se- curities w i th in the Kingdom. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of the pro- ceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell nonresident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na tu re. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA 's permission is required for Saudi Arab ian r iya l-denom ina ted loans made through Saudi Arabian banks. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The SAMA 's permission is required, except for Saudi A rab ian banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 777 To residents from nonresidents Financial institutions that provide guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same privileges as domestic capital. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25% Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate taxes for 10 years after production has begun. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Arabian corpora- tions, Saudi Arabian ins t i tu t ions, and citizens of the GCC countries. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The SAMA requires local banks to obtain its approval before inv i t ing foreign banks to participate in Saudi Arabian riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or out- side Saudi Arabia. Prior approval from the SAMA is also required for Saudi Arabian banks to participate in riyal-standard transactions arranged abroad. For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only domestic currency depos- its are subject to the SAMA 's reserve requirements. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.a. Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks The SAMA 's approval is required by Saudi Arabian banks before acqu ir ing shares in a company established outside the Kingdom. In banks by nonresidents n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. No. Capital transactions Changes During 1997 July 26. The SAMA authorized the establishment of a special fund, the country f u n d, to facilitate indirect portfolio investment in Saudi Arabian riyal securities, primarily the shares of Saudi Arab ian joint-stock companies. The country fund was established by a Saudi American bank that also manages it. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc at the rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Ex- change rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of French francs and an exchange commission of 0.125%o to \%o on purchases and sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addi- tion, they levy a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, all of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is available to residents only for imports of a specified category of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the M in is try of Economy, Finance, and Planning (MEFP). Forward cover may be provided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange settlement stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the ma tu r i ty of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three mon ths. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, the currency of any other Operations Account country, or any other currency stipulated in com- mercial contracts. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the MEFP, wh ich has delegated a part of the approval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The Directorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs officers monitor ou tf lows of foreign exchange and confirm imports and exports of goods effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO and the MEFP exercise exchange controls ex post. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 778 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 779 In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad There are no restrictions on precious metal brokers. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewe lry and gold materials) require prior authoriza- tion from the MEFP. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined we ight of 500 grams. CFAF banknotes may be freely exported by residents w i th in the WAEMU. However, the suspension of BCEAO repurchases of exported banknotes continues. In add i t ion, shipments of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their corre- spondent banks outside the WAEMU are s tr ic t ly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amoun ts exceeding the equ iva lent of CFAF 500,000 by nonresidents requires documen ta t ion demonstrating either the im- portation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or th rough the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Yes. Nonresidents and residents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank w i th in eight days. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Effec t ive Janua ry 27, 1998, the opening of these accounts is permitted but is subject to prior approval by the MEFP w i th the consent of the BCEAO. Yes. The ho ld ing of accounts w i th banks abroad is not expressly proh ib i ted. However, transfers for the accumu la t ion of assets abroad (i.e., outside the franc zone) by a resi- dent mu st be approved by the MEFP. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts are perm i t ted, but prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 780 SENEGAL Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French franc notes, or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEFP. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Foreign accounts in francs may be freely debited for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the off ic ial exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Advance paymen ts for imports require au thor iza t ion, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange un t il the contractual date of the payments. Exchange au thor iza t ion and invoices are required. On January 27, 1998, the amount of import transactions required to be domiciled w i th authorized banks was raised to CFAF 3 million from CFAF 500,000. An inspection is required for the qua l i ty and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion f.o.b. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Quan t i ta t ive restrictions may be applied on products for pub l ic health and security reasons. Negative list Narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs du ty comprises four rates: 0.5%, 10%, 25%, and a customs stamp of 5%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports, including those to members of WAEMU and Operations Ac- count countries, must normally be collected w i th in 120 days of the arr ival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. Yes. Effec t ive January 27, 1998, exports of more than CFAF 3 m i l l ion must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. The previous threshold was CFAF 500,000. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. Licenses are required, except for unworked gold, rice, and sugar. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib le transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be freely made. Most paymen ts to other coun tr ies are subject to indica- t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 781 Prior approval is required for paymen ts and transfers for interest, consu l t ing and legal fees, fam i ly maintenance and a l imony, gamb l ing and prize earnings, the use of credit cards abroad, and the remittance of profits and dividends. Requires prior declaration and subm iss ion of supporting documents to the MEFP. Residents trave l ing for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion; amounts in excess of th is l im it may be taken out in other means of paymen t. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion w i thout l im it on the number of trips or d i f fe ren t ia t ion by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 200,000 a day for up to one mon th, corresponding to a max i- mum of CFAF 6 million (business travel allowances may be combined w i th tourism allowances). Allowances in excess of these l im i ts are subject to the au thor iza t ion of the MEFP. Total net wages may be transferred upon presentation of pay slips, provided the transfer is made w i th in three months fo l low ing the pay period. Credit cards issued by resident f inanc ial in termed iar ies and spec if ica l ly authorized by the MEFP may be used up to the ceilings for tour ist and bus iness travel. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib les transactions w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions Capital movemen ts between Senegal and France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control. Cap i tal transfers to all other coun tr ies require the approval of the MEFP, but capital receipts from such countries are perm i t- ted freely. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the MEFP; 75% of such inves tmen ts must be financed w i th borrowing from abroad. The purchase, sale, or issue of securities by nonresidents is subject to declaration. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins t rumen ts On collective inves tment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 782 SENEGAL Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Commercial credits may be freely granted in connection w i th merchandise exports if the due date of the payment is w i th in 120 days of the sh ipment of the merchandise. Commercial credits in connection w i th the provision of services may be freely granted by residents; no l im it is set for the payment due date. Nonresidents may freely grant commercial credits to resident ins t i tu t ions. Repaymen ts of commercial credits are generally au thor ized, subject to the subm iss ion of support- ing documents. These credits requ ire the prior au tho r iza t ion of the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service these facilities requires an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the MEFP, and the submission of suppor t ing documents. There are no restrictions on the gran t ing of these loans. The funds required for servic- ing these facilities must be transferred abroad by an authorized in termed iary bank. The gran t ing of guarantees and sureties is subject to prior approval by the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds required to service these fac i l i t ies requires issuance of an exchange pe rm it bearing the s igna tu re of the MEFP to accompany the suppo r t ing documents. These facilities may be freely granted. Transfer abroad of the funds required to service these facilities must be made by an authorized in termed iary bank. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct inves tment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are considered to be direct inves tmen ts and therefore require a prior declaration to the MEFP. All inves tmen ts, in c lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal, require prior authorization from the MEFP; 75% of such inves tmen ts must be financed w i th borrowing from abroad. Direct in- vestments constitute inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered direct inves tment un less it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Senegal, inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP before they are made. The liquidation of direct and other investments, whether Senegalese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP and the BCEAO w i t h in 20 days of each operation. These purchases require prior authorization of the MEFP. Purchases for purposes other than direct inves tment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sales must be declared to the MEFP. Operations may be settled only after approval of the MEFP. Fo l low ing settlement, the l iqu ida t ion or sale must be reported to the MEFP and to the BCEAO w i t h in 20 days of each operation. By residents to nonresidents Subject to au tho r iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 783 To residents from nonresidents Subject to declaration for statistical purposes and submission of a report to the MEFP when granted and when repaid. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Subject to au thor iza t ion. To residents from nonresidents Subject to declaration. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Subject to prior declaration. Transfer abroad by emigrants Subject to prior au thor iza t ion. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Permitted but subject to declaration for statistical purposes. Subject to declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes and submission of the re- port to the MEFP when granted and when repaid. Repayment must be declared in advance to the MEFP. Maintenance of accounts abroad Subject to au thor iza t ion by MEFP. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Prior MEFP authorization is required. n.a. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 Imports and import payments May 2. The ceiling for preshipment inspection of merchandise was raised to CFAF 3 million, except for certain cases mandated specifically by the Customs Adm in is tra t ion. Changes During 1998 Resident accounts January 27. Foreign exchange accounts may be opened w i th the prior approval of the BCEAO. Imports and import payments January 27. The domiciliation threshold was raised to CFAF 3 m i l l ion. Exports and export proceeds January 27. The domiciliation threshold was raised to CFAF 3 m i l l ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Various commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Pegged The Seychelles rupee is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners. The weights of the eight currencies making up the basket were revised on Ju ly 28, 1997. Details of the revised weights are as follows: U.S. dol- lar (26.5), the pound sterling (16.8), the French franc (14.8), the South Afr ican rand (11.5), Singapore dollar (10.3), the deutsche mark (8.4), the Italian lira (8.0), and the Japanese yen (3.7). Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee, as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS) circulates these rates daily to the com- mercial banks. The CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective currencies. Other authorized dealers inc lude casinos, guesthouses, hotels, restaurants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, sh ipp ing agents, and sh ip chandlers. These dealers are restricted to buy ing only in the course of the ir licensed ac t iv i ty. They must sell all their foreign currency proceeds to the f ive commercial banks. All other transactions in foreign exchange are proh ib i ted. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy For ward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange control authorities are the CBS and the M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF). The MOF partially controls foreign trade and domestic marketing through a mechan ism of import and price controls. International security restrictions Payment arrears Private No. Yes. 784 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 785 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, except for dealings in gold bu l l ion, wh ich are restricted to authorized dealers. Controls on external trade n.a. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Travelers may take out up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency. n.a. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Importers other than ind iv idua ls are required to obtain import licenses from the Sey- chelles Licensing Au tho r i ty, in accordance w i th objective criteria. In addition, for each sh ipment of commodities, an importer must apply to the Trade and Commerce D iv is ion of the MOF for a permit, the granting of wh ich is discretionary. Permits are norma l ly not granted for cars older than three years and some nonessential commodities. An import quota system applicable to most imports is in effect. The quota allocation system is based on 75% of importers' 1995 imports. Imports related to the tourist indu s t ry are granted a higher percentage of their 1995 imports, and new importers are allocated SR 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 786 SEYCHELLES Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to taxes of up to 200%, w i th most goods subject to rates ranging between 5% and 30%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The Seychelles Marketing Board has the monopoly on imports of rice, sugar, meat, vegetables, margarine, tomato sauce, an imal feed, oil, coffee and tea, f ru i t s, f lour, and chili sauce. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be converted through domestic commercial banks, wh ich are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. W i th a v iew to the even tual d isman- tling of the pipeline, surrender requirements were modified on January 1, 1997, to 20% to the pipeline; 30% to finance essential government imports; and the rema in ing 50% to be used at the discretion of banks. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents must surrender the proceeds to a commercial bank w i th in 21 days of the transaction. Receipts, w i th the exception of dividend remittances and transfers of management fees, may be disposed of freely. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct investment Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign investment is freely permitted, provided that such inves tment does not invo lve ownership of land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 787 Controls on liquidation of direct investment On January 1, 1997, restrictions on remittances of proceeds from sale of assets were removed. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement January 1. The new Foreign Exchange Regulations Act became effective. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Surrender requirements were modified. July 28. Weights in the currency basket were revised. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L Restrictions on remittances for profits and dividends and management fees were removed. Capital transactions Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tment January L Restrictions on remittances of proceeds from sale of assets were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Currency The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean leone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange rates are freely determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange w i th customers and trade freely among themselves or w i th the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), the central bank. The BSL determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, includ- ing for customs valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted average rate of commercial bank and foreign exchange bureau transactions of the previous week. Foreign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transactions and are not allowed to sell traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones to an external account in the currency of the exporting coun try, in pounds sterling, or in dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified convertible currency. Yes. n.a. n.a. The M in i s t ry of Finance (MOF) fo rmu la tes exchange control policy in consu l ta t ion w i th the BSL, but the day-to-day adm in is tra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the BSL w i th the assistance of the commercial banks. International security restrictions Payment arrears Official Private No. Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num is- matic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, or sell 788 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted SIERRA LEONE 789 certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Exports of gold require a license. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require an ind iv idual import license. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they de- clared on arrival. Employees on off ic ial business may take out up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Travelers may take out up to $5,000 w i thout restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 w i th supporting documents. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet their operational requirements. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Residents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any convertible currency. These accounts, for which minimum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be cred- ited w i th funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be con- verted into leones to meet the account holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permitted for current international transac- tions w i thout prior approval from the BSL, subject to fu l f i l l ing the regulation govern- ing the transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. The same regulations apply as for resident accounts. All documented inward remit- tances can also be externalized w i thout reference to the BSL. Accounts in leones held on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits into external ac- counts are vetted by the BSL, and credit balances of the accounts can be externalized w i thout reference to the BSL. Prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports All app l ica t ions for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone and supported by the fo l low ing documents: completed exchange control form A l, original proforma invoice, f inal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 790 SIERRA LEONE Domiciliation requirements n.a. invoice, original b i ll of lad ing /a irway b i l l, tax clearance certificate, and presh ipment inspection certificate. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods spec if ica l ly ex- empted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price ver if ica t ion by an international company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed w i th importers' own foreign exchange resources do not require LCs established w i th a local commercial bank. All goods, except m i l i ta ry goods, may be imported freely w i thout a license. A sales tax of 20% of the landed va lue is levied on all impor ts, except for cap i tal goods and the ir spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by u n i n- corporated businesses are subject to a 2% tax as advance payment of income taxes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must repatriate export proceeds w i th in 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced from external sources are not subject to the repatriation requirement. Surrender requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters of commercial goods are required to complete export forms that mu st be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are sub ject to p resh ipment in- spection and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspection company ap- pointed by the government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1% before clearing their goods through customs. Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for one year or six months, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25% silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set w i th diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewe l ry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the leone equ iva lent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic value; and works of art. Yes. Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an adm in is tra t ive fee of 1 % and an income tax of 1.5% based on the va lue in dollars of diamonds exported. Licensed exporters of gold must pay a 2.5% royalty. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Au thor i ty to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. There are no controls on most payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval SIERRA LEONE 791 The limit is $5,000. Applications for travel allowances in excess of the l im it must be supported by travel documen ts, e.g., a ticket or passport. Commercial banks may make remittances in favor of nonres ident employees of in ter- na t ional in s t i tu t ion s, agencies, or foreign nongove rnmen tal organ iza t ions on ly up to the remuneration package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such payment are supported by a va l id work pe rm i t, a remune ra t ion package agreement, and a tax clearance certificate. Pensions Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital payments to nonresidents are subject to exchange control. BSL approval is required before a security registered in or outside Sierra Leone may be transferred to, or purchased by, a nonresident. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. All funds accruing on such inves tmen t, as well as the capital upon te rm ina t ion of the inves tmen t, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad w i thout permission; for permission to be given, the company is usua l ly re- qu ired to obtain bank cer t if ica t ion of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Bonds or other debt securities There are no ex is t ing regu la t ions. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transac t ions are not perm i t ted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded w i th domestic resources are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require BSL approval. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases w i th f u n ds b rought f rom abroad are a l lowed. BSL cer t if ica t ion is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 792 SIERRA LEONE Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, in Sierra Leone to nonresident entities. Permission of the BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In addition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the granting or renewal of any guar- antee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be 100% covered by the nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Investments abroad are not allowed. Yes. No. Purchase abroad by residents Permission from the BSL is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements n.a. n.a. There are no existing regulations relating to personal capital movements. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of the ir deposit l iab i l i t ies in for- eign currency. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) n.a. Yes. Banks are not engaged in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in th is respect. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are not engaged in local lending in foreign exchange, Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange n.a. Provisions specific to institutional investors There are no ex is t ing regulations governing the operations of in s t i tu t ion al investors. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore dollar. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable at par w i th- out charge in Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore (MAS) monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weigh ted basket of currencies. No. No. Foreign currency fu tu res are traded at the Singapore International Monetary Ex- change. Banks can hedge the ir exchange risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. Yes. n .a. The MAS retains respons ib i l i ty for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the M in is t ry of Trade and Industry administers import and export licens- ing requirements for a small number of products. Financial assets owned by residents of Iraq and Libya are blocked. Singapore observes the import and export p roh ib i t ions covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" basis for delivery of 995 f ine gold. Kilobars of 999.9 fineness are most commonly traded, while 10-tola bars are also becoming popu lar. Spot gold prices for settlement in Singapore are de- rived by ad jus t ing the loco-London price w i th the location premium, wh ich takes into account the cost of transpor ta t ion and insurance. A gold fu tu res contract is also avail- able on the Singapore In te rna t ional Mone tary Exchange. 793 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 SINGAPORE Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency App roval required Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Licenses are required for imports of rice. A few imports are controlled for hea l th, safety, or security reasons. n.a. n.a. Very few imports are dutiable. Singapore is a party to the CEPT scheme for the AFTA. Customs duties are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and automobiles. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required tor substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer, timber, and rubber. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system SINGAPORE 795 Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions and other non tar iff barriers in impor t ing countries. n .a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts. The amount an ind iv idual is allowed to charge to all cards issued to him or her by the same card issuer may not exceed two times the cardholder's mon th ly income. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. No. No. No. No. Yes. Foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that have been zoned or approved for indus t r ial or commercial use requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential un i ts in buildings of six or more stories and in approved condominium developments. Foreigners who make an economic con tr ibu t ion to Singapore w i ll be given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign com- panies, to accommodate the ir senior personnel. n.a. No. Banks, merchant banks, and finance and insurance companies must consult the MAS if they in tend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 m i l l ion to nonresi- dents. Non-Singapore citizens (excluding permanent residents of Singapore) and non- Singapore companies are not granted Singapore dollar loans for the purchase of resi- den t ial properties in Singapore. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 SINGAPORE Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to re- serve requirements. Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to the liquid asset requirement. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Currency The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The Slovak koruna is pegged to a basket comprising the deutsche mark (60%) and the dollar (40%), w i th in margins of ±7%, and the official exchange rate is determined in f ix ing sessions conducted daily by the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The foreign exchange authorities are. the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the NBS. The MOF exercises jurisdiction in matters relating to other ministries and central bodies of the state administration, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, juridical persons established by separate law who are connected through financial ties to the state budget, and local communities and their budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF ma in ta ins foreign exchange records and documents per ta in ing to interstate negotiations on property claims, and imple- ments the results of these negotiations w i th in the country. The NBS exercises jur is- diction pursuant to residents other than those specified above and to nonresidents. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in gold is conducted exclusively by banks to the extent stipulated in the banking license. Controls on external trade The import and export of gold and gold coins and traveler's checks must be reported. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting obligations on exports and imports of banknotes and coins in Slo- vak and foreign currencies exceeding Sk 150,000, and on postal or other deliveries of banknotes and coins in Slovak and foreign currencies together exceeding Sk 20,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. In the case of natural persons, they are eli- gible dur ing their stay abroad; otherwise, approval from the NBS is required. Resident Accounts 797 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad For jur id ical persons, approval from the NBS or MOF is not required. A resident may open an account abroad in foreign or Slovak currency, or enter in to a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only after obtaining a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign exchange permit is not required (1) when the resident has a bank ing or foreign exchange license; (2) in connection w i th a pr iva te i n d i v i d u a l 's stay abroad; (3) to cover the documented operating costs of the res iden t 's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of depositing the res iden t's foreign exchange funds if foreign legislation forbids the t rans fer of such funds to the coun try; or (5) for the payment of fees, taxes, and other documented expenses related to the adm in is tra t ion and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency This applies to current in terna t ional transac t ions and for permitted capital account transactions. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange may be deposited freely into these accounts, and paymen ts may be made freely, locally or abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible in to foreign currency This applies on ly to receipts re la t ing to current transac t ions. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A system of variable levies accompanies import licensing. Import licenses are required for some agricultural goods and a few strategic items, such as crude oil; natural gas; weapons and m i l i tary technology; firearms; dual-use goods; technology; noxious substances, such as s tupefy ing substances, poisons, psy- chotropic substances, and precursors; and narcotics. An automatic licensing system applies to imports of several agricultural and indus tr ial products and raw materials. Effective January 1, 1998, a nonautomatic licensing system is applicable to the fo l low- ing goods: (1) pit coal and brown coal; (2) oil and na tu ral gas, but only that impor ted from Russia; and (3) beer and soft dr inks from the Czeck Repub l ic. All imports, except those from the Czech Repub l ic and from countries w i th whom the Slovak Republic has a customs un ion, are subject to an ad valorem tariff. Imports f rom developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP: 42 least- developed countries and 100 developing countries are granted 50% and 100% reduc- tions from applicable duties, respectively. An import surcharge of 7% imposed since Ju ly 21, 1997 on all goods, w i th the exception of some goods listed in the Decree of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 799 the MOF, has been decreased to 5% since January 1, 1998, and to 3% on Apr il 1, 1998. Imported goods are taxed w i th a VAT, and there are excise duties on mineral oils, spirits, wine, beer, and tobacco. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to transfer or import all funds acquired abroad in koruny or foreign exchange into the country w i thout delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection w i th the acquisition of such fund s, but not later than 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acqu is i t ion, or from the date of becoming a resident in the coun t ry. This du ty does not app ly to (1) foreign or Slovak currency used by a resident natural person during his or her stay abroad; and (2) reinvestment of earnings from direct inves tmen t, although th is is not applicable to cases when such inves tment requires a foreign exchange permit. Surrender requirements were abolished on January 1, 1998. No. No. Export licenses are required for narcotics, poisons, f irearms and ammun i t ion, and all dual-use goods and technologies. Export licenses are required for (1) a restricted number of ag r icu l tu ral goods for ma in ta in ing a safe foods tuff basis of the state; (2) some strategic indu s t r ial goods, such as oil products, fue ls, or electricity; (3) hardly renewable raw materials, such as raw wood, or metal waste; and (4) imported goods for preven t ing speculative impor t- export activities. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts, except those set on allowances for travel expenses. Residents may use balances in local foreign currency accounts and in do- mestic currency accounts for purposes of tourism w i thout l im i t; additional purchases of cash in foreign currency for tourist travel abroad are subject to a Sk 60,000 annual l im i t. Off ic ial travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is sub- ject to d i f fe rent allowances, depending on the country of des t ina t ion. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Residents must repatriate all proceeds w i thout delay, net of fees, taxes, and other ex- penses incurred abroad in connection w i th the aquisition of such funds, but no later than 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acqu is i t ion, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. Un t il end-December 1997, resident ju r id ical persons were required to sell to a bank any foreign exchange they had obtained exceeding Sk 100,000. Surrender require- ments were abolished on January 1, 1998. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 800 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require a permit from the MOF and the NBS. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the NBS. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may participate in the primary market in government bonds only through domestic investors registered in the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Issuance of bonds is subject to a permit from the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Sale or issue abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit from the NBS is required except from (1) those securities with ma tur i ty up to three years; or (2) those sold to, or issued in, OECD countries. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require a foreign exchange perm it from the NBS. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the NBS. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit from the NBS is required, except for those securities w i th up to three years' ma tu r i ty. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A permit from the MOF is required. Purchase abroad by residents A resident who is an authorized foreign exchange dealer and is not a bank or a securi- ties trader may enter into contracts for dealing in f inanc ial derivatives solely on the basis of a foreign exchange permit. A foreign exchange permit is not required when the contract or business is transacted w i th an authorized foreign exchange dealer w i th in the range allowed by the banking or foreign exchange license. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations app ly as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Registered enterprises may freely obtain credits. Financial credits A foreign exchange perm it from the MOF or the NBS is required. By residents to nonresidents Financial credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of f ive years or more provided by Slovak residents to residents of OECD countries are liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 801 To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities A permit from the NBS is required, except for credits in excess of three years' ma tu r i ty. These transactions require a foreign exchange permit. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct investment Inward direct investment NBS approval is required, except when the investment is made in an EU coun try; normally, approval is granted if the investment is considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by nonresidents. Foreign exchange equity participation may be deposited in a foreign exchange account w i th a local bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit is required, except for OECD countries. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents, w i th the exception of Slovak citizens, may acquire real estate in the country solely in the following cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the purpose of estab- lishing diplomatic representation of a foreign country under conditions of mu tu a l i ty; (3) when the real estate acquired is co-owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresident, or when a nonresident acquires real estate from a spouse, sibling, parent, or grandparent; (4) when there is an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonresident for other domestic fixed assets, the price of wh ich, pursuant to separate regulations, does not exceed the price of the original real estate as determined in accordance w i th separate regulations; (5) when the nonresident has preemptive purchase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was bu i lt by the nonresident on his or her own land; and (7) when expressly permitted under separate legislation. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad A resident may conclude a contract for the acceptance of f inanc ial credit on the basis of a perm it from the NBS. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Such lend ing requires a foreign exchange perm i t, and ma tu r i ty mu st not exceed f ive years. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed w i t h in the extent of the bank ing license. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts A foreign exchange permit is required. Foreign exchange permission from the NBS is required when the banking license does not inc lude dealing in foreign securities. Same regulations apply for residents and nonresidents pursuant to the Banking Act Amendmen t, effec t ive February 21, 1998. Four zones —from 10% to 50% —for in- vestment are defined, for wh ich the investors are required to seek NBS permission. Banks are required to keep the ratio of foreign currency assets to l iab i l i t ies below 1.05; the ir access to the exchange rate f ix ing sessions is subject to compliance w i th th is requ iremen t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non res iden ts and on por tfo l io invested abroad Pu rsuant to Section 24 of the Act on Inve s tment Companies and Inve s tment Funds (1992), l im i ts on secur i t ies issued by the same issuer must not exceed 10% of the who le equ i ty. L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io inves ted abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. No. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement January 1. The ma rg ins of the exchange rate band were widened to ±7%. Imports and import payments January 1. A non au tom a t ic l icens ing system was es tab l ished for impo r ts of coal. Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s t rum en ts July 2. A foreign exchange perm it was no longer required for the issue of securities when they are ma rke tab le in the ma in market of foreign stock exchanges. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Changes During 1998 April 1. The fo l low ing changes occurred: (1) the requ irement to sell foreign exchange receipts to a bank was abolished; (2) the approval requ irement for ju r id i c al persons to keep foreign exchange accounts was abolished; and (3) accounts in domestic currency were allowed to be f u l ly convertible into foreign currency. April 1. The f o l l ow i ng changes occurred: (1) the ko runa could be converted freely in to fore ign currency; and (2) paymen ts abroad could be made w i thout l im i t, but on ly on the basis of a con trac tual bond. January 1. A nonau toma t ic l icens ing system was applied to the fo l low ing goods: ( 1) pit coal and b rown coal; (2) oil and na tu ral gas, but on ly that imported from Rus- sia; and (3) beer and soft d r inks from the Czech Repub l ic. January 1. The impo rt surcharge was decreased to 5%. April 1. The impo rt surcharge was fu r ther decreased to 3%. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Surrender requ iremen ts were abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions April L L im i ts for tourist trave ls abroad were e l im ina ted. April I. Surrender requ i remen ts were e l im ina ted. Con tro ls on cap i tal and money market i n s t r um e n ts April L Perm iss ion was no longer required for residents of OECD countries when the securities are marke tab le in the ma in market of foreign stock exchanges. Con tro ls on real estate t ransac t ions April 1. Foreign bank branches were allowed to acquire real estate for pu r su ing bank ac t iv i t ies, but on ly in the case of construction or reconstruction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Currency The currency of Slovenia is the Slovenian tolar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating The external value of the tolar is determined in the interbank exchange market, where the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may participate. The BOS also may buy and sell foreign exchange in transac t ions w i th the government and commercial banks. Na tural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions w i th banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Juridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or between themselves. The BOS publishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting purposes, as well as for govern- ment transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market O f f ic ial cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Slovenia maintains a payments agreement w i th the former Yugoslav Republic of Ma- cedonia. The agreement allows juridical persons to conduct transactions through non- residents' accounts held w i th banks. Provisions relating to the special clearing settlement are inoperative. Also, there is an agreement w i th Italy related to trade be- tween the two border regions. By virtue of the Foreign Exchange Law, the exchange control is exercised by (1) the BOS on the foreign exchange operations of banks and foreign exchange offices; (2) the Foreign Exchange Inspectorate w i th in the M in is try of Finance (MOF) on for- eign exchange and foreign trade operations of natural and jur id ical persons other than banks; and (3) the customs when the necessary conditions are met for the cross-border transfers of goods, as well as banknotes, securities, and gold. International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance w i th UN sanctions A special law adopted in 1992 in accordance w i th UN sanctions, amended on May 16, 1996, ma in ta ins certain restrictions w i th regard to assets pertaining to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). 803 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 804 SLOVENIA Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Na tural persons may take abroad up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are allowed to take abroad cash exceeding that amount w i th prior approval of the BOS for each operation. Residents may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 3,000; amounts exceeding DM 3,000 require prior approval from the BOS. Na tu ral persons may bring into the country up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are allowed to br ing into the country cash exceeding that amount w i th prior approval of the BOS. There are reporting requirements for cash and checks exceeding the equivalent of SIT 2.2 million for na tural persons according to regulations on money-laundering prevention. Resident Accounts Resident ju r id ical persons are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts, w i th certain exceptions. Yes. Yes. Resident na tural persons are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts w i thout restriction. Resident ju r id ical persons are allowed to ma in ta in accounts in connection w i th payments provided under the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. Resident ju r id ical persons may ma in ta in accounts abroad only in specific cases. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad; resident na tural persons are not allowed to do so. Approval of the BOS is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. W i thdrawa ls in cash from these accounts are limited to the equ iva lent of SIT 250,000 a month; amoun ts exceeding th is l im it are subject to BOS approva l. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts and conduct tolar-denominated op- erations. These accounts may be "by name" only. Tolar cash w i thd rawa ls are l im i ted to SIT 250,000 a mon th; w i thd rawa ls exceeding th is amount are subject to prior ap- proval of the BOS. Balances in these accounts may be converted in to convertible cur- rencies and repatriated. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are blocked as per imp lemen ta t ion of UN resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs SLOVENIA 805 Imports and Import Payments No. No. Commercial banks effect payments upon the presentation of documents reflecting the purpose of the transaction. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control on ly, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammun i t ion ), and for security and pub l ic health reasons, in accordance w i th international conventions and codes. Slovenia ma in ta ins a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile prod- ucts. There are annual import quotas, wh ich are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from coun- tries with which Slovenia has free trade agreements. There are customs and specific duties that are in accordance w i th the range accepted in the WTO. Customs duties range up to 27% for ind iv idual products, and certain agri- cultural products are subject to a 53.3% rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be registered w i th the BOS as credit arrangements. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely nego- tiated exchange rate or to use the proceeds for payments abroad. Af ter that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance w i th the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. Yes. A tax is levied on unworked wood (4%); the tax is not paid for exports to countries w i th wh ich Slovenia has a free trade agreement. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Residents are not allowed to purchase insurance abroad, except in the case of reinsur- ance by insurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 SLOVENIA Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents are obliged to conduct the ir portfolio inves tmen ts in the secondary market-traded securities and derivatives through the custody accounts established w i th the licensed domestic banks, and held either in tolars or in foreign currency. Non- residents may authorize either the licensed domestic bank or a proxy to effect transac- tions. The custody accounts representing a bank 's foreign exchange l i a b i l i ty need to be balanced w i th the equ iva lent foreign exchange assets. Portfolio inves tmen ts com- mitted for seven years or more are exempt from th is custody account requirement. Nonresidents are not allowed to undertake such activities in the coun t ry. Foreign securities may be offered in Slovenia on ly w i th the prior approval of the Agency for Securities Market, by domestic brokerage companies, and licensed banks. Banks are allowed to purchase securities abroad. Provisions regulating direct inves t- ments abroad are applied in case of portfolio inves tmen ts by nonbanks. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations apply as for purchases in the country by nonresidents. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Same regu la t ions as for purchases in the coun t ry by nonres iden ts of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Foreign securities may be offered in Slovenia only w i th the prior app roval of the Agency for Securities Market, by domestic brokerage companies, and licensed banks. Banks are allowed to purchase foreign debt securities. Provisions regu la t ing credit operations are applied in case of purchases of bonds and other debt securities by non- banks. Banks are allowed to purchase debt securities abroad. Provisions regulating credit operations are applied in case of purchases of bonds and other debt securities by non- banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents Provisions regu la t ing credit operations are applied in case of sale or issue of bonds and other debt securities abroad by residents. On money market ins trumen ts Same regulations app ly as for bonds or other debt securities. On collective inves tment securities Same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Same regulations apply as for bonds or other debt securities. Commercial credits are subject to registration w i th the BOS, provided the payment for goods and services is deferred for more than 12 mon ths. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Domestic banks and the Slovenian Export Corporation may extend f inanc ial credits to nonresidents in accordance w i th their business strategy. Domestic companies, other than banks, may extend f inanc ial credits to a f f i l ia ted companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange SLOVENIA 807 There is an interest-free deposit requ irement of 40% for loans w i th ma tu r i t ies of up to seven years and 10% for maturities of more than seven years (for credits concluded after December 1996) for the fo l low ing: (1) contracting foreign f inanc ial credits, other than those raised for imports of goods or services; (2) repayment of loans prev ious ly raised abroad under relatively less favorable terms; (3) loans raised abroad by the Slovenian Export Corporation if the proceeds of the loan are used for credits extended to nonresidents; and (4) setting up a company abroad, to increase the capital, or to purchase a share in a foreign company. Loans raised by the domestic authorized banks and the Republic of Slovenia are exempted from the 10% deposit. Domestic legal en t i t ies (companies) must obtain permission of the MOF. The permis- sion is granted provided that (1) the domestic company has been operating w i th the profit, and the funds used do not exceed the amount of the latter; and (2) the taxes and the customs have been paid in the country. Domestic and na tu ral persons need to in- form the MOF of any inves tment made abroad. Registration of foreign direct inves tmen ts or es tab l ishment of (who l ly or pa r t ia l ly) foreign-owned companies is subject to the same conditions as those of domestic en t i- ties. Companies must be registered at the local Court of Justice, wh ich is deemed to have informed the M in i s t ry of Economic Cooperation and Development accordingly. Wholly foreign-owned companies are not allowed in the m i l i tary equipment field, rail and air transport, commun ica t ions and te lecommun ica t ions, insurance, pub l i sh ing, and mass media. Furthermore, in the fo l low ing sectors, foreign participation is l im i ted: aud i t ing companies, stockbroking companies, management companies for inves tment fund s, and authorized management companies. Foreign banks may not open branches in Slovenia, while the foreign participation in banks or the establishment of subsidiar- ies of foreign banks is subject to the prior approval of the BOS. Foreign acqu is i t ion of more than 25% of shares of new ly privatized companies is subject to governmental approval. Transfer of proceeds is free of any restrictions after all obligations in Slovenia have been met. Transfer of proceeds from realization of inheritance is free if the principle of reciprocity is guaranteed between Slovenia and the country of the recipient. Purchases that do not cons t i tu te a part of ou tward direct inves tmen ts are, in pr inc ip le, free. Following the amendment of the Constitution from Ju ly 1997, nonresidents may ac- quire the right to own real estate pu rsuant to the provisions of a law or an in te rna t ional agreement, under condition of reciprocity. Foreign states, however, may acquire right to own property affixed to land used by them for diplomatic and consular purposes. Furthermore, foreigners may acquire a t i t le to land only by inher i tance, provided that reciprocity of such right of acquisition is recognized. Ind iv idu a ls may not contract loans w i th nonresidents. Banks are not allowed to raise short-term loans abroad. There is an interest-free de- posit requirement of 40% for loans w i th maturities of up to seven years. Authorized domestic banks are permitted to hold accounts w i th foreign banks, pro- vided that they meet credit solvency requirements of the coun try in wh ich the foreign bank has its headquarters. Domestic banks must report these accounts to the BOS. Domestic authorized banks are allowed to extend credits in foreign currency to do- mestic persons, other than na tural persons, provided that the terms of the credit are not less favorable for the client than those p reva i l ing on the in te rna t ional capital market. The funds so obtained may be used for payments abroad or for ref inanc ing of the ex- isting obligations from previously extended credits pursuant to this regulation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 SLOVENIA Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Banks, savings banks, and credit cooperatives are obliged to hold m in imum reserves w i th the BOS. The required reserve ratios are applied only on tolar deposits. Banks are required to hold reserves in foreign exchange in the form of l iqu id assets abroad and investments in foreign currency bills, issued by the BOS (at least 60% of the requirement), to ensure overall liquidity of payments abroad and to f u l f il their obligations to holders of deposits in foreign exchange, both domestic and foreign per- sons. Correspondingly, the volume of payments in current transactions w i th foreign countries, the volume of household as well as of nonresident deposits in foreign ex- change are taken into account for the calculation of the prescribed amount. In addi- tion, banks are required to keep their net daily foreign exchange position (at least 75% of the foreign exchange m in imum) representing the difference between certain foreign exchange assets and liabilities in the country and abroad. The real component of deposit and lending rates of commercial banks is determined by an off ic ia l ly sanctioned cartel agreement. Yes. There is an interest-free deposit requirement on tolar and foreign exchange deposit accounts of foreign banks and financial ins t i tu t ions as applied for pure f inanc ial loans. No restrictions apply to the transaction accounts for foreign banks and f inanc ial insti- tu t ions. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents BOS approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are required to gradually (by Ju ly 1, 1999, at the latest) l im it the ir daily foreign exchange exposure to 20% of their capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors The Law on Insurance Companies (1994) and the Law on Investment Funds and Man- agement Companies (1994) establish tha t: (1) Insurance stock companies may not be owned only by nonresidents; (2) Nonresidents can become stockholders of insurance companies on ly w i th the ap- proval of the MOF; (3) If the ma jo r i ty of shares are owned by nonresidents, insurance companies cannot provide reinsurance; (4) Mu tual insurance funds should be owned only by residents; (5) Management companies may be owned by nonresidents by more than 20% of shares only w i th the approval of the Agency of Securities Market; (6) Authorized management companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouchers in the pr iva t iza t ion process) may be owned by more than 10% of shares only w i th the approval of the Agency for Securities Market and the M in is t ry for Economic A f fa i rs and Development; and (7) Investment stock companies' investments in foreign securities (closed inves tment fund) may not exceed 10% of total investments. Only foreign securities of explicitly stated stock exchange by the Agency for Securi- ties Market are eligible. The Law on Pension Insurance establishes that the capital fund of the Pension Insurance Stock Company is owned by the Repub l ic of S loven ia. Vo lun ta ry pension funds for extra pension rights are subject to rules for insu rance stock companies. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 809 Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min .) on portfolio invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. The Law on Securities Market (1994) imposes restrictions on ownership by nonresi- dents of licensed market participants-brokers. Nonresidents may own up to 24% of the capital of a broker's company only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market. Changes During 1997 Nonresident accounts February 4. Cash w i thdrawa ls from foreign exchange accounts were limited to SIT 250,000 a month, or its equivalent. Amounts exceeding this l im it are subject to BOS approval. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors February 4. Nonresidents are required to conduct their portfolio inves tmen ts in the secondary market-traded securities and derivatives, through custody accounts estab- lished w i th licensed domestic banks. The custody accounts representing a bank 's li- ability need to be balanced with the equivalent foreign exchange assets. July 24. The BOS adopted an amendment to the regulation to allow banks to exempt from the balancing requirement the portfolio inves tmen ts in shares acquired by non- residents who undertake in the subsequent seven years not to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of these securities to third parties, except to other nonresidents who in turn make the same seven-year commitment. January 21. Domestic banks were allowed to extend f inanc ial credits to nonresidents in accordance w i th their policy. Domestic companies, other than banks, may extend f inanc ial credits to companies they control. May 24. The interest-free deposit requirement for loans raised abroad to set up a com- pany abroad or to increase the capital or to purchase a share in a foreign company was removed. June 29. Domestic companies, other than banks, were granted permission to extend financial credits to affiliated companies. November 15. The Slovenian Export Corporation was granted permission to extend f inanc ial credits to nonresidents in accordance w i th its business strategy. November 29. The interest-free deposit requirement for the loans raised abroad by the Slovenian Export Corporation no longer applied if the proceeds of the loan were used for credits extended to nonresidents. July 17. Following the amendment of the Constitution, nonresidents were granted permission to acquire the right to own real estate pursuant to provisions of a law or an in terna t ional agreement, under the condition of reciprocity. June 15. The BOS adopted a new prudential regulation demanding banks to gradua l ly (by Ju ly 1, 2002, at the latest) limit their daily foreign exchange exposure to 20% of the ir capital. December 16. The BOS shortened the period in which banks were required to l im it their daily foreign exchange exposure to 20% of their capital, to Ju ly 1, 2000, from Ju ly 1,2002. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of March 31 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 24, 1979. Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a trade- weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trad ing partners. The Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) makes discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month w i th in margins of 0.5% above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month. The CBSI provides the commercial banks w i th daily l im i ts on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions w i th the CBSI and the pub- lic. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. No. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Islands in any currency. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met only by payments in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in the Solomon Islands. No. Exchange control is administered by the CBSI through the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations (1977). The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain transactions up to specified limits. As of December 22, 1997, these l im i ts were increased to US$25,000 on March 2, 1998 from US$5,000. Certain restrictions have been imposed on the mak ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Commercial mining companies require a license from the M in is t ry of Na tu ral Resources (MONR) to mine gold. 810 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 8 11 Controls on external trade Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a perm it issued by the MONR to mine, buy, or export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On impor ts Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SI$250 w i thout the approval of the CBSI, wh ich is not norma l ly given. Nonresidents v i s i t ing the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expend i tures. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts in cases where there is a genuine need. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts may be held, but proof of bona fide need is required. These accounts can be held only at authorized foreign exchange dealers. CBSI ap- proval is required for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Balances may be transferred abroad w i th the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports P resh ipment inspection Letters of credit Impo rt licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. Au tho r ized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 w i th- out reference to the CBSI. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Import taxes and/or tariffs The rate of impo rt levy is ! ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 SOLOMON ISLANDS Taxes collected through the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received w i th in three months of the date of exportation. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. No. Yes. Residents may export goods other than round logs w i thout exchange control formali- ties, but they must comply w i th the terms of a general authorization issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs require specific au thor i ty from the CBSI upon presenta- tion of a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation, and Env ironmen t. If exporters cannot meet the conditions of a general authorization (repatriation, sur- render, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for a specific authorization. Au thor iza t ion is not needed for goods valued under SI$250 in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, inc lud ing most personal ef- fects of passengers. Exports of logs are subject to an export du ty of 35% if valued up to SI$250 per cubic meter and 38% if of greater value. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Interest payments Prior approval Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is readily granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas. Approval is readily granted for payments of services and remittances of d iv idends, profits, and other earnings accruing to nonresidents from companies in the Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly due. Yes. The l im it is based on a previously approved repayment schedule. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Approval is norma l ly given for the purchase of foreign currency for trave l. Applica- tions for travel funds must be submitted to an authorized dealer, and presentation of passports and airline tickets is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Medical costs Prior approval Approval is readily granted. The application must be supported by an invoice from the medical practitioner. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 813 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Approval is readily granted. The application must be supported by an invo ice from the relevant educational ins t i tu t ion. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Approval is readily granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Approval is readily granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is readily granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents, Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Pensions Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Fam i ly maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Approval is readily granted. Yes. Approval is readily granted. Transfers by postal order of up to SI$100 a week to persons residing permanen t ly abroad are perm i t ted. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Approval is required for the disposal of proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Capital Transactions All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval by the CBSI. CBSI approval is required for all transactions. Bonds or other debt securities CBSI approval is required for all transactions. On money market instruments CBSI approval is required for all transactions. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 SOLOMON ISLANDS Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. Purchase abroad by residents CBSI approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBSI approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents CBSI approval is required to borrow funds from or to issue equ i ty capital to a non- resident. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents The Solomon Islands branch of a company incorporated overseas must have CBSI approval for borrowing funds from a nonresident, inc lud ing the branch's overseas head office. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd d irect inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Inves tment by resident ind iv idua ls or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain l im i ta t ions and permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. Approval by the Foreign Investment Board is required for in i t ial or increased foreign inves tmen t. Approval is readily g iven for the transfer of proceeds. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents G i f ts, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig r an ts Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 815 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Liquid asset requirements There is a 40% requirement. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts L im i ts are set for each commercial bank. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments December 15, The exchange arrangement was reclassified to "managed floating" from "pegged to a currency composite." December 22. Authorized dealers' authority to approve transactions was reduced to US$5,000. Imports and import payments March 2. Authorized dealers' au tho r i ty to approve transactions was increased to US$25,000. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali shilling. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, comprising the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and the two commercial banks operating as authorized dealers. The rate in this market applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service paymen ts of the government; and (2) a free market, in which the exchange rate is freely negoti- ated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and external accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali shilling is determined in the free market by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified cur- rencies (dollars, deutsche mark, D j ibou ti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuw a i ti dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and pounds sterling); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements w i th Israel or South Africa. Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the CBS. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Residents may hold and acquire, for num isma t ic purposes on ly, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ ire the permission of the CBS; permission is not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Gold imported by jewe le rs must be melted down w i th in one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. 816 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted SOMALIA 817 Imports of gold that originate in member countries of the EU are exempt from customs du ty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10% du ty. n.a. Nonresidents may bring in w i th them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers w i thout d ip loma t ic status are required, upon the ir arr ival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali sh i l l ings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank, wh ich acts on behalf of the CBS. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other exter- nal accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for inv is ib le payments as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents tak ing place through external accounts are effected at the off ic ial exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports in to export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers ho ld ing export/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise im- port payments. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in dollars may be opened w i th the CBS by embassies, in te rna t ional in s t i tu t ion s, and nonresidents. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports All payments for pr iva te imports must be effected through LCs. Private importers may establish LCs for impor ts at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account un t il the time of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirement Yes. Advance import deposits A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is required to open LCs for private sector impor ts; the deposit is retained un t il the LCs are settled. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 818 SOMALIA Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewe lry, and m in- erals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of pub l ic safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Imports of goods originat- ing in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nega t ive l i st Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to au thor- ized dealers. Exporters of non trad i t ional goods may retain 70% of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under LC arrangements, an advance payment de- posit of 100% of the va lue of exports is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported on ly by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and sk ins, and m inera ls is subject to prior approval. Yes. n.a. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of m i n im um export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Taxes collected through the exchange system n .a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to Israel are prohibited. To prevent unau tho r ized capital transfers, paymen ts for current inv is ib les through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel The CBS provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign ex- change for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts, w i th the approval of the CBS. Quantitative limits There is a l im it of $200 a person a t r ip for business and tourist travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 819 Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amoun ts in exceptional cases. Medical costs Quantitative limits There is a limit of $3,000 a year for medical costs. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Study abroad costs Quantitative limits There is a l im it of $ 1,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve app l ica t ions for larger amoun ts in exceptional cases. Subsc r ip t ions and membe rsh ip fees Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages n.a. n .a. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Inves tment Law are allowed up to 50%. Gamb l ing /p r ize earnings Credit card use abroad n.a. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requ iremen ts Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of the ir foreign exchange receipts in exter- nal accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers w i th in f ive business days of their receipts. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Inves tment Law. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market ins t rumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents n .a. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SOMALIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments must obtain approval from the Foreign Investment Board, wh ich reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, w i th in a 60-day period. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repa- triated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatria- tion may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five- year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable after taxes are paid. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Changes During 1995-97 The IMF has not received from the authorities the informa t ion required for a descrip- tion of the exchange and trade system as of December 1995, December 1996, and December 1997. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of March 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of South Africa is the South African rand. Gold coins, inc lud ing the Krugerrands, are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rand is determined in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins with respect to exchange transac- tions but may intervene occasionally in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks. The principal intervention currency is the dollar. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any f irm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward ex- change contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or ac- cruals. Subject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. Gold m in ing companies and houses may sell forward anticipated re- ceipts of their fu tu re gold sales. Since early 1997, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) no longer provides long- term forward cover. The SARB may, however, favorably entertain requests to buy dollars outright forward. The SARB participates only in the short-term (maturities not exceeding 12 months) forward market at its own initiative and on prices quoted in the market by authorized dealers. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal ten- der in Lesotho and Nam ib ia but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA w i th the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident ac- count and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Nam ib ia, and Swaziland). Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Leso- tho, and Nam ib ia dollar banknotes issued by Nam ib ia are freely convertible in to rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. South A f r ica is part of the CMA. Payments w i t h in the CMA are unrestricted. Exchange l icens ing is the respons ib i l i ty of the Treasury, wh ich has delegated th is au thor i ty to the SARB; in tu rn, the SARB has authorized dealers to deal w i th most transactions w i thout prior reference to the SARB. According to UN Security Counc il Reso lu t ion No. 661, South A f r ica imposed restric- t ions on current paymen ts and transfers to Iraq. 821 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 822 SOUTH AFRICA Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents of South Afr ica may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for num isma t ic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized deal- ers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus tr ial and professional users are allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewe l ry. Effec t ive De- cember 12, 1997, gold producers no longer have to market the ir gold th rough the SARB. Gold producers may elect to sell their total ou tput to approved counterparties, provided the SARB has given the necessary exemption from the relevant exchange control regulations. This includes sales to foreign counterparties. The current ex- change control regulations pertaining to the repatriation of export proceeds remain applicable to gold exports. The m int strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, wh ich are legal tender, w i thout a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Authorized dealers have been permitted by the SARB to approve exports of jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the per- sonal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 50,000 (subject to a wr i t ten declaration that the jewelry w i ll be brought back to South Africa on the trave ler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers, subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, inc lud ing certain gold coins, for sale to num isma t is ts. Banknotes up to R 2,000 may be exported, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The limitation does not apply to m igrant workers re tu rn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amoun ts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Leso- tho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica may take w i th them up to R 2,000 in SARB banknotes. On March 25, 1998, the l im it on banknotes that may be exported was increased to R 5,000. Residents and contract workers leaving South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out their allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them any amount of foreign banknotes brought into the coun try or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and con- verted in South Africa. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries ou ts ide the CMA may b r ing in up to R 2,000 in SARB banknotes. On March 25, 1998, the l im it on banknotes that may be imported was increased to R 5,000. There are no l im i ta t ions on the impor ta t ion of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaz i land. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Natural persons may hold foreign currency deposits w i th authorized dealers. Approval is granted based on the merit of the application, and in most circumstances only if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and paymen ts can ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 823 be fac i l i ta ted. South Afr ican na tu ral persons may invest abroad up to an amount of R 400,000 and may retain abroad foreign-earned income. No prior approval is re- qu ired to open foreign bank accounts for these purposes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Foreign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th all authorized payments by residents, w i th the proceeds of sales of foreign currency to au thor ized dealers, and w i th paymen ts from other nonresident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for paymen ts to nonres iden ts for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for paymen ts to account holders residing in South Afr ica for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South Afr ican asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to th is type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit w i th an authorized dealer and used w i t h in certain l im i ts for the ho lder's l iv ing expenses wh i le v i s i t ing South A f r ica, for other specified paymen ts to residents, or for inves tment in any locally quoted securi- ties (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Payments are allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except for capital goods imports. Au thor ized dealers may permit, w i thout the SARB 's approval, advance pay- ment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Importers are au toma t ica l ly granted foreign exchange to pay for current impor ts upon presenting to the ir bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative l ist Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Ma law i, Nam ib ia, Swaz i land, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manu fac- tured in these countries, w i th the exception of a limited range of agr icu l tural products from Ma lawi and Zimbabwe. The nega t ive l ist inc ludes all used goods; waste and scrap; f i sh, crustaceans, and mol- lusks; dairy products; dried f ru i t; black tea; certain vegetables and agr icu l tural prod- ucts; wines; m ineral fue ls; radioactive chemicals; new pneuma t ic tires; gold and coins; certain minerals; f irearms; gamb l ing machines; and ozone-depleting substances. All importers requ ir ing import perm i ts for trade or manu fac tu r ing purposes mu st be regis- tered w i th the Sub-directorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for impor ts from any coun try. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 824 Licenses with quotas SOUTH AFRICA Import quotas apply to certain agricultural products and a number of manufactured products. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariff rates range up to 4%, except for motor vehicles, the rate for wh ich is set at 54%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Afr ica w i th in 30 days of accrual. Effective March 11, 1998, exporters may retain export pro- ceeds for 180 days after accrual or date of shipment, whichever comes f irs t, in cus- tomer foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be offered for sale w i th in six months of the date of shipment or 30 days of the date of accrual, wh ichever is sooner. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the f u ll pro- ceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in that particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. All exports over R 50,000 must be supported by the prescribed declaration on forms F178 or N.E.P., irrespective of the country of destination of the goods. Exports outside the SACU of a limited number of products considered to be in rela- tively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Commissions Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Most limits have been removed. Documentary evidence must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Authorized dealers must permit the transfer of commissions against documentary evi- dence confirming the amount involved, provided the rate of commission is no rmal in the particular trade. Authorized dealers may grant approval for roya l ty payments, provided the Department of Trade and Industry has approved the relevant royalty agreement. Authorized dealers must also permit the remittance of profits and dividends, provided it does not invo lve excessive use of local credit facilities. Income earned from securities held by nonresi- dents is freely transferable to their coun try of residence. Yes. Since March 11, 1998, South African residents trave l ing abroad have been allowed a max imum of R 100,000 for each person 12 years and older, and R 30,000 for each child under 12 years for a calendar year, w i thout any da i ly l im it and irrespective of the country of destination. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 825 Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the SARD. S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amoun ts exceeding R 100,000 a year, or R 200,000 if the student is accompanied by a spouse. The student holiday allowance is R 30,000 a year. Authorized dealers may permit technical service fees, legal fees, and court costs in- curred outside the CM A against the production of documentary evidence confirming the amount invo lved. Prior approval is required for amounts exceeding R 4,000 a mon th for a receiving fam i ly. There are no limits set for alimony payments, but a court order is required. Approval is not required in respect of travel expenditures. Expenditure may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements South A f r ican residents who are natural persons earning income abroad (from any source other than merchandise exports) may retain those funds abroad. Corporate entities are required to remit earnings w i th in 30 days of accrual. Entities may retain the proceeds of services rendered for 180 days after accrual or date of service ren- dered, wh ichever comes f irs t, in customer foreign currency accounts w i th authorized dealers. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Only the issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior exchange control approva l, wh ich is not no rma l ly granted. Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 400,000 foreign in- vestment l im i t. Resident institutions may acquire investments as part of their approved portfolio inves tmen ts abroad. Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a participating nature. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SOUTH AFRICA On money market ins trumen ts The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On collective inves tment securities The same regulations apply as for shares or other securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture. Purchase abroad by residents Such purchases by resident i n d i v i d u a ls are not allowed w i t h in the R 400,000 foreign inves tment l im i t. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative ins trumen ts, options, and fu tu res on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to six months. Banks may, in certain c ircum- stances, allow a fur ther extension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control approval. In respect of services, payment has to be received under the terms of the contract between the parties w i th in a reasonable period after the service is rendered. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended w i thout prior approval. How- ever, nonresident who l ly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholders' inves tment (i.e., the paid-up equ i ty capital, preference shares, un- distributed profits, shareholders' loans from abroad, and, in certain instances, the hard core of shareholders' trade credit). The ab i l i ty to borrow locally increases w i th the size of local par t ic ipa t ion according to a set fo rmu la, and permission to borrow is generally granted. Prior approval, wh ich is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments, and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Firms are allowed to borrow abroad using their South African balance sheet as collateral in cases where the investment required exceeds the R 50 million l im it (R 250 m i l l ion in respect o fSADC ). Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transac- tions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Requests by companies are considered in l ight of na t ional interest, such as the benefit to South A f r ica 's in te rna t ional reserves by, for example, generating exports of goods and services. Companies may be allowed to transfer up to R 50 m i l l ion to f inance approved inves tmen ts abroad; up to R 55 m i l l ion for approved new inves tment abroad; and up to R 250 m i l l ion in SADC countries other than Nam ib ia, Swaziland, and Lesotho, where funds already flow freely. Ind iv idua ls over 18 years of age may invest up to R 400,000 overseas or in a foreign currency account in South Africa, provided they obtain a tax clearance certificate from the South African Revenue Service. There are no limits on the type of inves tment and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 827 no requirement to advise the authorities on how the funds are used. Income earned abroad and capital introduced into the Repub l ic on or after Ju ly 1, 1997 by private ind iv idu al residents in South Afr ica may be retransferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied that the income and/or capital had previously been converted to rand, by v iew ing documentary evidence con f i rm ing the amounts invo lved. No. Such purchases by resident ind iv idua ls are allowed w i th in the R 400,000 foreign in- ves tment l im i t. Other purchases require prior exchange control approval. Au thor ized dealers may allow the t rans fer of loans w i th in a l im it of R 10,000 an appli- cant du r ing a calendar year. Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are generally not permitted. Prior approval, wh ich is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of the loan do not d isrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of monetary gifts and loans within a limit of R 10,000 an applicant dur ing a calendar year. Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and d is tr ibu t ions from estates may be remitted abroad. Authorized dealers may provide imm ig ran ts w i th exchange to repay loans received in their previous countries of domicile for the specific purpose of financing their reloca- tion to South Afr ica, provided documentary evidence of the debt is available, and the imm igrant is not in possession of foreign currency to repay the debt. Em igran ts are limited to a one-time total of R 400,000 a fam i ly (R 200,000 an ind i- vidual), but this must include any previous investments overseas. All other assets re- main blocked in South Africa. The emigrant is subsequently able to repatriate the annual income from those blocked assets, but is prohibited from ex i t ing the assets, either by sale to South African residents or by asset swaps w i th either a foreign or South A f r ican counterpart. Au thor ized dealers may also authorize the export on form N.E.P. of any household and personal effects, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (excluding coins that are legal tender in the Republic) for f am i ly un i ts or single persons emigrating w i th in the overall insured va lue of R 1 m i l l ion. All borrowing abroad by residents requires exchange control approval. Banks may contract short-term work ing capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may open Nostro accounts at their discretion. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000, provided that the total credit made available to an ind iv idual from any source does not exceed th is amoun t. Exchange control approval is required for facilities exceeding th is amoun t. Foreign investors are allowed to borrow domestically an amount of rand equal to the value of the foreign exchange they brought into South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SOUTH AFRICA Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Africa. Reserve requirements on all deposit accounts held by residents or nonresidents and denominated in either rand or foreign exchange are 2.5% of total deposit liabilities. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of adjusted total liabilities. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Investment in equity is limited to 100% of capital p lus reserves. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 15% of net qua l i fy ing capital p lus reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. On outward portfolio investment, the exchange control may authorize up to 15% of total South African assets for each qua l ify ing ins t i tu t ion (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, unit trusts, management companies, and fund managers) to be invested abroad by way of an asset swap. Subject to the overall l im it of 15% of total South African assets, long-term insurers, pension funds, and un it trusts through un it trust management companies may apply for foreign currency transfers of up to 5% of the net inf low of funds for the calendar year 1997 in 1998, and an additional 10% in se- curities listed on stock exchanges in SADC countries. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The l im it on banknotes that may be imported or exported was increased to R 2,000 from R 1,000. Changes During 1997 Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers December 12. Gold producers no longer have to market the ir gold through the SARB. April 1. The requirement to complete forms A and E in respect of sales and purchases of foreign exchange, respectively, has been increased to R 40,000 from R 2,000. March 13. The seven-day requirement w i t h in wh ich foreign currency proceeds mu st be offered for sale was increased to 30 days. March 13. All quantitative l im i ts on current paymen ts and transfers were abolished, with the exception of the limits applicable to travel, study abroad, gifts, and mainte- nance payments. The l im it on allowances for study abroad was increased to R 100,000 a year, and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 160,000 a year. The stu- dent holiday allowance was increased to R 20,000, and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 40,000. Travel allowance l im i ts were amended by ama lgama t ing the travel facilities app l icab le to neighboring and other countries as we ll as dispensing w i th the daily l im it restriction. The l im it was set at R 80,000 an adu lt and R 25,000 a child under 12 years for a calendar year. The fu ll travel fac i l i ty may be taken in for- eign banknotes. A traveler may now purchase the required foreign currency up to 60 days prior to departure. The l im it for f am i ly maintenance transfers was increased to R 4,000 a month from R 2,000 a month for a receiving f am i ly un i t. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers July 1. Private ind iv idua ls earning income abroad, other than from merchand ise ex- ports, may retain funds abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other in s t rumen ts Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tment Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers SOUTH AFRICA 829 March 13. Authorized dealers may grant facilities to nonaffected and affected persons w i th reliance on guarantees from abroad, provided the local f inanc ial assistance ac- corded the affected person does not exceed the limit calculated in terms of the fo rmu la ratio. March 13. Direct investment by corporations in countries outside of the CMA of up to R 30 million was permitted. In respect of investment into SADC countries, an amount of up to R 50 m i l l ion is allowed. Where the cost of investment exceeds the aforemen- tioned amounts, the balance has to be financed abroad. As opposed to previous policy, consideration will now be given to such foreign borrowing being raised w i th recourse to, or a guarantee from, South Africa, imp ly ing that the local corporation's balance sheet may be used in negotiating such a facility. July 1. Na tural persons resident in South Afr ica who are taxpayers in good standing and 18 years of age w i ll be allowed to invest R 200,000 abroad, i.e., outside the CMA. Such persons may, a l terna t ive ly, hold foreign currency deposits w i th authorized deal- ers in foreign exchange should they not wish to invest abroad. Such investments may be dealt w i th freely in any manner. November 17. The emigration allowance was increased to R 400,000 from R 250,000 a fam i ly un it and to R 200,000 from R 125,000 a single person em igra t ing from South Africa. March 13. Ins t i tu t ional investors may effect foreign currency transfers du r ing 1997 of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds during the 1996 calendar year, subject to an overall l im it of 10% of their total assets. Add i t iona l ly, transfers dur ing 1997 of up to 2% of the net in f low of funds during the 1996 calendar year may be allowed to be invested on registered stock exchanges in any SADC member country. This dispensa- tion is also subject to the overall l im it of 10% of total assets applicable to asset swaps. Un it trust management companies may acquire foreign portfolio inves tmen ts by way of asset swaps for up to 10% of total assets under management. Changes During 1998 March 25. The l im it on banknotes that may be imported or exported was increased to R 5,000 from R 2,000. March 11. The requirement to complete forms A and E in respect of sales and pur- chases of foreign exchange, respectively, was increased to R 50,000 from R 40,000. March 11. The requirement to repatriate foreign currency earnings in respect of ex- ports of goods and services w i t h in 30 days has been amended to 180 days from date of accrual or the date of shipment/service rendered, whichever comes f i rs t, if held in a customer foreign currency account. The restrictions on the opening and operation of customer foreign currency accounts have been amended to inc lude business profits or commissions on foreign transactions, subject to the 180-day limit for repatriation of fund s. March 11. The limit on allowances for study abroad was increased to R 100,000 a year, and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 200,000 a year. The student ho l iday allowance was increased to R 30,000, and if the student is accompanied by a spouse, to R 60,000. The l im it on travel allowances was set at R 100,000 an adu lt and R 30,000 a child under 12 years of age for a calendar year. March 17. Authorized dealers may effect maintenance transfers at a rate not exceeding R 4,000 a receiving f am i ly un it a mon th, provided the proposed beneficiaries are ei- ther the fa ther, mother, brother, or sister of the applicant and are in necessitous cir- cumstances. Authorized dealers may transfer monetary gifts and loans w i t h in a l im it of R 10,000 an applicant during a calendar year to persons norma l ly resident outside the Republic or to South African residents who are temporarily overseas for the sole pur- pose of s tudy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 830 SOUTH AFRICA Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors March 11. Direct investment by corporations in countries outside the CM A of up to R 30 million was permitted. In respect of investment into SADC countries, an amount of up to R 250 million is allowed. Where the cost of inves tment exceeds the afore- mentioned amoun ts, the balance has to be financed abroad. Income earned abroad and capital introduced into the Repub l ic on or after Ju ly 1, 1997 by pr iva te ind iv idual residents in South Afr ica may be retransferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied that the income and/or capital had p rev ious ly been converted to rand, by v iew ing documentary evidence con f i rm ing the amounts invo lved. Foreign inves tment by na tural persons in South Afr ica was increased to R 400,000 from R 200,000. March 11. Au thor ized dealers may also authorize the export on form N.E.P. of any household and personal effects, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (excluding coins that are legal tender in the Repub l ic) for a f am i ly un it or a single person emigrating w i th in the overall insured va lue of R 1 m i l l ion. March 11. Qua l i fy ing ins t i tu t ional investors may acquire foreign portfolio inves tmen ts by way of asset swaps for up to 15% of their total South Afr ican assets. Long-term insurers, pension funds, and un it trusts may avail themselves of foreign currency transfers through un it trust management companies du r ing 1998 of up to 5% of the net in f low of funds du r ing the 1997 calendar year, subject to an overall l im it of 15% of the ir total South A f r ican assets. Transfers du r ing 1998 of up to 10% of the ir in f low of funds during the 1997 calendar year may be invested on registered stock exchanges in any SADC member country, subject to the overall l im it of 15% of total South Afr ican assets applicable to assets swaps. Fund managers may acquire foreign portfolio in- vestments by way of asset swaps for up to 15% of total South Afr ican assets under their management. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1986. Currency The currency of Spain is the Spanish peseta. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Cooperative arrangement Spain participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance w i th th is agreement, Spain ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the peseta and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (BOS), the central bank, stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified intervention rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and fu tu res on the peseta are traded in major f inanc ial markets. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Is- lands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. The Directorate-General of Foreign Investment and Commercial Policy has the power to authorize, ver ify, control, and monitor foreign investments and economic transactions, collections, payments, and transfers with the rest of the world. The Directorate-General of the Treasury and Financial Policy has authority to conduct the inves t iga t ions and inspections required to prepare or change the policy applied in matters concerning exchange control as well as to initiate, address, and rule on penal- ties applied w i th regard to exchange control. In add i t ion, the BOS has au thor i ty in a number of areas such as the following: (1) granting au thor iza t ion to banks, savings and loans, and other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, when required, to transact business on the foreign exchange market, and registering ins t i tu t ions open to the public to engage in foreign exchange activities; (2) receiving information on collections, payments, and transfers abroad in wh ich registered institutions are involved, and issuing instructions pertaining to the content, procedures, and frequency for such reporting; and (3) receiving in fo rma t ion on f inanc ial and commercial credits and loans, accounts abroad held by residents in Spain, and netting operations. International security restrictions Specific f inanc ial transactions w i th Iraq and Libya are subject to au tho r iza t ion. In accordance w i th UN sanctions On March 6, 1997, trade w i th Iraq was prohibited w i th the fo l low ing exceptions: im- ports of petroleum and petroleum products and exports (or trans it through Spanish territory), i tems of basic necessity, medical products, and items that were approved by the committee established in UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990). 831 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 832 SPAIN Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, depending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and p la t inum ingots are subject to a VAT at the rate of 33%. The exportation of banknotes, coins, or bearer checks in excess of the equ iva lent of Ptas 1 million must be declared. Yes. The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, or bearer checks must be declared by nonresidents in certain cases. Foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or deb- its to these accounts may be freely made. However, account holders are required to report the opening of such accounts and to provide informa t ion per ta in ing to credit and debit activities occuring in the accounts. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses SPAIN 833 No. Imports of tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin, or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made among the members of the EU, those of the EFT A and the Mediterranean and ACP member countries of the WTO, and state trading countries). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of textiles, steel, and some copper by-products require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. The restriction applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a partici- pating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents (individuals or legal entities other than registered institutions) are required to file reports to the BOS of loans with a maturity of more than one year granted to nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 834 SPAIN To residents from nonresidents Residents other than registered ins t i tu t ions are required to f i le reports to the BOS for credits w i th a m a tu r i ty of more than one year. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are required to file a declaration w i th the BOS. To residents from nonresidents Residents are required to f i le a declaration w i th the BOS. Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Prior adm in is tra t ive verification is required in the fo l low ing cases: (1) when the in- vestment amounts to at least Ptas 250 m i l l ion; (2) when the ac t iv i ty of the en t i ty re- ceiving the investment is the direct or indirect ho ld ing of share cap i tal of other entities, irrespective of the amount of the inves tmen t; and (3) when the inves tment is made in a tax haven country. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Spain are defined in accordance w i th gu ide l ines estab- lished by the OECD that take into account whether effective control over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the inves tment is at least 10% of the company's capital. Prior verification is required only when foreign par t ic ipa t ion exceeds 50% and at least one of the fo l low ing conditions applies: (1) foreign par t ic ipa t ion exceeds Ptas 500 m i l l ion; and (2) foreign investors are resi- dents of tax haven countries. Special au tho r iza t ion is required for non-EU foreign inves tment in television, radio, air transport, gamb l ing, and defense-related indus t r ies. Special au thor iza t ion is also required for a foreign governmen t's participation in Spanish companies (other than governments of EU countries), unless otherwise regu- lated by in te rna t ional treaties. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases that exceed Ptas 250 m i l l ion require prior verification. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior verification is required for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 m i l l ion or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. Controls on personal capital movements Loans G i f t s, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A l though residents are free to clear credits and debits w i th nonresidents and to receive or grant loans, credits, and financing or postpone payments from or to the same, they must report such transactions to the Bank of Spain. Specifically, the free acquisition inter vivos of investments in Spain by nonresidents is subject to the same requirements and formalities as if they were an onerous acquisi- tion, w i thout tak ing in to account the condition of the seller of the inves tmen t. Conse- qu en t ly, au tho r iza t ion or prior ver if ica t ion must be sought in such cases in wh ich Span ish legislation so requires for onerous acqu is i t ions in any of the forms of foreign inves tmen t. To residents from nonresidents A declaration is required providing the data that the Adm in is tra t ion of the Bank of Spain requires for purposes of statistical and fiscal monitoring of the transactions. Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions In general, transfers must be made via deposit in s t i tu t ion s, prov id ing specific in fo r- ma t ion, except in two cases: (1) when the resident makes the collection or the payment via a bank account abroad or (2) when it is done by handing the money over in person. In all cases, transfers are not subject to prior authorization or verification. Borrow ing abroad F inanc ial credits obtained shou ld be reported to the BOS. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 835 Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inve s tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publication applica- ble to credit ins t i tu t ions. Yes. Commun i ty investors, even though they may be authorized credit ins t i tu t ions in other EU countries, must obtain prior adm in is tra t ive notice. Noncommunity institutions may also be denied the authorization if community credit institutions do not enjoy reciprocity in the country of origin of the investor. Regulations d i f fer according to the type of institutional investor. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 6. Trade w i th Iraq was prohibited w i th the following exceptions: imports of petroleum and petroleum products and exports (or transit through Spanish territory), items of basic necessity, medical products, and items that were approved by the committee established in UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) announces the daily spot buy ing and selling rates of the dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for transactions w i th commercial banks w i th in margins of 2%, and buys and sells the dollar on a spot basis at those rates. No. No. Forward sales are permitted except for capital transfers and amortization of loans, up to a period of 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transactions are freely determined. They may cover such pur- chases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. Official cover of forward operations n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to cur- rent transactions and settlements are effected in dollars. For settlements w i th all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees provided that the supplier maintains a nonresident rupee account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to wh ich the pay- ment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account w i th the prior approval of the CBSL. Proceeds from exports must be received either in desig- nated foreign currencies, in Sri Lanka rupees from a nonresident account that a foreign bank maintains w i th an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident account that a person maintains w i th an authorized dealer, as approved by the CBSL. Sri Lanka is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka mu st be made through au thor ized commercial banks in accordance w i th procedures prescribed by the Con tro l ler of Ex- change (CoE). Remittances may also be made through post offices under pe rm i ts is- sued by the CoE. The Board of Inves tmen ts (BOI) hand les all app l i c a t ions re la t ing to foreign inves tmen ts in Sri Lanka. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. 836 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 837 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically The importation of gold for domestic, industrial, or commercial purpose is permitted w i thout restrictions. Commercial banks may import gold on a consignment basis for duty-free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport. Reexportation of nonmonetary gold is allowed only in special circumstances. The exportation of gold coins and bullion requires licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the CoE. Sri Lanka nationals may each take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes only at exit points, against original en- cashment documents issued by the authorized dealers or money changers, and can be taken out. Individuals may take out foreign currency for travel purposes and are re- quired to declare to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equ iva len t. Sri Lanka nationals may each bring into Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 1,000. Travelers must declare, at entry, foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, a declaration has to be made, irrespective of the amount. Prescribed currencies are not permitted to be imported. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts w i th a m in imum balance equivalent to $500 in designated currencies, provided the funds do not relate to any transactions. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Sri Lankans employed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lanka origin who are employed and reside abroad may ma in ta in nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in designated foreign currencies. Credits to the accounts are limited to remittances from emp loyment earnings abroad, foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by such ind iv idua ls, approved investment incomes, and interest payments on the ac- counts. These accounts may be freely debited for payments abroad, w i th the exception of paymen ts for the sale of movable or immovab le property in Sri Lanka, purchase of capital assets abroad by residents, or for payments w i th in Sri Lanka. Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, w i th exemptions granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales pro- ceeds of such inves tmen ts received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts w i thout the prior approval of the CoE. Resident foreigners may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th domestic commercial banks in any of 10 designated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 838 SRI LANKA Domestic currency accounts currencies w i thout prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic un it of the bank and not by its foreign currency bank ing u n i t. The accounts may be curren t, savings, or deposit accounts, but w i thd rawal of funds by check is not perm i t ted. Credits to these accounts are l im i ted to inwa rd rem i t tances and to amoun ts in Sri Lanka rupees au thor ized by the CoE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to ou tward remittances and to paymen ts af ter conve r t ing into Sri Lanka rupees. These accounts may be held by (1) nonna t iona ls residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) f i rms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka na t iona ls res id ing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (l)-(4), credits from inward remittances, and debits for local d isbu rsemen ts or outward remittances may be effected freely; however, local credits to these require prior approva l. Accounts in category (4) are designated as nonresident blocked ac- counts only when ins t ruc t ions to that effect are received from the Department of Ex- change Control. Local debits to such accounts may be freely effected, w i thout prior approval; however, local credits to them and debits for ou twa rd rem i t tances require prior approva l. In category (5), foreign banks may open and operate nonres ident ac- counts w i th local commercial banks w i t h o ut prior approval of the Depa r tment of Ex- change Control. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts These accounts are used to hold fund s, u sua l ly of nonres iden ts, repatriates, and em i- grants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may deb it these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions and income tax refunds. Balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts ou t s tand ing on March 25, 1991, exc lud ing Sri Lanka c i t i- zens who have emigrated or acquired foreign c i t izensh ip and Ind ian and Pak is tani expatriates, may be remitted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lanka citizens who have acquired permanent res ident status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than f ive years as of June 30, 1995, are also permitted to rem it the ir account balances abroad. Except in the specified cases, remittances of up to SL Rs 350,000 are also allowed from these ac- counts w i thout prior approval. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports M in imum financing requirements Authorized dealers may approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit (LC) and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the va lue of a consignment does not exceed $3,000 (c.i.f.), consists of raw materials and spare parts for industries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Advance payment requirement Advance paymen ts for personal imports are l im i ted to $3,000. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports could be made on documents against paymen ts (D/P) and documents on ac- ceptance (D/A) terms and LCs, provided the sh ipp ing documents are routed through the supp l ier's bank to the impo r te r 's bank in Sri Lanka. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Inspection is required for certain consumer goods. Yes. About 441 items are ma in ta ined under license —mostly for pub l ic h e a l th, pub l ic moral, env i ronmen ta l, and na t ional security reasons. Imports of whea t, m e s l in, and wheat and meslin f lour are maintained under license in terms of a past contract entered in to by the government w i th a private flour m i l l ing company. Certain mach ine ry im- ports relating to foreign inves tment require the approval of the BOI. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 839 Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff structure consists of three band rates: 35%, 20%, and 10%. A few categories of products (e.g., tobacco, liquor, crude oil, and some categories of motor vehicles) remain outside th is tariff structure. A stamp du ty of 2% is levied on LCs for certain imports. A defense levy of 4.5% and a turnover tax ranging from 8% to 20% is levied on imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Imports of certain items, inc lud ing wheat, guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and petroleum products, are restricted to government or state corporations. Repatriation requirements Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and paymen ts agreements and to exports made to a member country of the ACU. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, timber, ivory and ivory products, and passenger vehicles registered in Sri Lanka prior to 1945. Yes. Export quotas are maintained on textiles and apparel used to implement bilateral quo- tas under the MFA. The Textile Quota Board allocates quotas among exporters based pr imar i ly on their past export performance. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Commissions Profit/dividends Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Payments for unloading and storage costs and adm in is tra t ive expenses are free. All other payments and transfers are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Remittances of premium for insurance on exports are not permitted. Remittances of premium to foreign reinsurers for reinsurance are permitted. Reasonable amounts are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. However, relevant documentation is required to remit interim prof i ts or dividends, or f inal profits or dividends. Technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meeting expenses and paying taxes and levies. Yes. Yes. Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 840 SRI LANKA Restrictions on use of funds Funds held abroad w i th CoE permission should not be used for the acquisition of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100% of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain exclusions and l im i ta t ions, without prior approval from the CoE through a Share Investment External Rupee Account maintained at a commercial bank. Companies incorporated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved coun- try funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individuals. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the coun try's exports and generate reasonable profits. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments abroad by residents are not generally permitted unless there is evidence that they w i ll promote the coun t ry 's exports and generate reasonable profits. Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the type of ac t iv i ty and the proportion of foreign capital ownership. Approval is automatically granted for foreign investment w i th equity capital ownership of up to 40%, except for certain activities restricted by special law or specific organizations. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of approved investments, along w i th the capital appreciation, may be remitted in fu l l. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in fu ll assets repre- senting their retirement funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the coun try, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain l im i ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange SRI LANKA 841 Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presen- tation of appropriate documentation. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian fam i l ies returning to Ind ia. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. At the t ime of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by normal direct route plus 20% of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign exchange equivalent up to $2,000 an adult and $1,000 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of depar- ture. Personal effects of reasonable amounts plus jewe lry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married female, SL Rs 60,000 for unmarried females, SL Rs 30,000 for female emigrants under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for male emigrants can be ex- ported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 an ind iv idua l, up to a max imum l im it of SL Rs 1 million a fam i ly un i t. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from their foreign currency bank ing un i ts to exporters for the f inanc ing of the importation of inpu ts required for the purpose of executing export orders. Since January 3, 1997, banks may grant these loans also from their domestic banking un i ts. This facility is limited to 70% of the total value of the confirmed export order. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 SRI LANKA Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. Changes During 1997 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions January 3. Commercial banks were permitted to grant currency loans from the ir do- mestic banking units. Imports and import payments January 21. The licensing requirement for imports of wheat f lour by large-scale manufacturers of biscuits and other flour-based products was liberalized. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese dinar. The Sudanese pound (LSd) also circulates and has a fixed relationship to the Sudanese d i n a r ( S d ) o f L S d lO = Sd 1. Un i ta ry. Since February 1997, the exchange rate band is determined by a Joint Committee formed by representatives of commercial banks, nonbank dealers, and the Bank of Sudan (BOS). At the same time, the trading band was widened from 0.3% to 2%. In determining the exchange rate, the Joint Committee (JC) takes into account the gov- ernment's macroeconomic objectives, in addition to the parallel market rate. On March 24, 1997, the spread between the free "accounts-to-accounts" market and o f f i- cial dealer exchange rates was lowered to 16% from about 20%. Since then, the ex- change rate set by the JC has been adjusted downward progressively, and by end- December, the spread between the market and official dealer rates was limited to about 7.3%. The off ic ial buy ing rate of the BOS is the weighted average of buy ing rates of commercial banks and nonbank dealers, and its selling rate is derived based on the buy ing rate plus a spread of 1.25%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries, except Egypt, and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free currency account or special foreign currency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any conver t ib le currency. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative There is an agreement w i th Egypt, which has been suspended since 1992. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is administered by the BOS w i th the assistance of the authorized dealers, that is, commercial and specialized banks as well as nonbanks acting as ex- change houses. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade With certain exceptions, only monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users of gold are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold for numismatic purposes. 843 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 844 SUDAN Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require a license issued by the M in is try of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for indus tr ial users and for monetary authorities. Travelers may export up to LSd 5,000. Up to $5,000 can be taken out of the country. Travelers may import up to LSd 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amoun t, but it must be declared and w i th in three months either deposited in a foreign currency account, sold to an authorized dealer, or retrans- ferred abroad. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. All residents, except the government, pub l ic ins t i tu t ions, and public sector enterprises are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th any means of payment w i thout restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash deposits. W i thd rawa ls from these accounts may be used to make transfers abroad; to make transfers to other free accounts; to purchase domestic currency; to make pay- ments in foreign exchange to domestic ins t i tu t ions authorized to sell goods and ser- vices for foreign exchange; and for any other purpose. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organ iza t ions; foreign charities and aid organizations; foreign companies, foreign contractors, and the for- eign personnel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts w i th authorized banks. These accounts may be credited w i th transfers from abroad. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, to f inance for- eign travel, to purchase local currency in order to f inance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local ins t i tu t ions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to finance imports. W i thdrawa ls can be made for the purpose of travel by the account holder or his or her fam i ly, and local paymen ts in Sudanese pounds, requ ir ing conversion to Sudanese currency at the commercial bank rate. Except for a i r l ine companies, approval is required to open these accounts. These ac- counts may be credited w i th paymen ts by the ir passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. These accounts may be opened by the same i n d i v i d u a ls and o rgan iza t ions as those allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Prior approval is required. Balances may be converted subject to the purpose for convers ion and if supported w i th documen tary evidence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 845 Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Authorized banks are free to obtain a deposit of any amount in foreign currency from the importer at least one mon th before the importer receives the sh ipp ing documents. Imports financed at the commercial market rate, inc lud ing those financed w i th letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit of up to the f u ll c.i.f. value. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a va l id commercial registration certificate, a va l id tax clearance certificate, and a wr i t ten consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of imports. Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses n .a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for imports through bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Negative list Certain imports are prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and na t ional secu r i ty. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import duty rates range from 5% to 250%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 45 days of the date of the b i ll of lading. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses W i thout quo tas W i th quo tas Export taxes Effec t ive May 1, 1997, the surrender of export proceeds to the BOS was 100% for cotton, 95% for gum arabic, 40% for 13 specified items, and 30% for other exports. At the end of 1997, surrender requirements stood at 40% for cotton, 93% for gum arabic, 40% for 13 specified items, and 25% for other exports. Licenses are required for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and under barter trade. All exports to Israel are proh ib i ted, as is the exportation of hides and sk ins, and char- coal and firewood. n.a. Taxes are levied on all goods, except those that are exported under bilateral protocol arrangements and under barter agreements. Un t il end-1997, w i th the exception of cotton and gum arabic, export duties were applied according to two bands, zero to 3% or 5%. Export duties on cotton and gum arabic were changed to a rate of 10%. Be- g inn ing January 1, 1998, export duties were reduced by three percentage points. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Insurance for imports must normally be taken out w i th local companies. Payments for interest, medical costs, study abroad, subscription and membership fees, and the remit- tance of prof i ts and d iv idends are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona f ide tests. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 Interest payments Prior approval Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts Prior approval SUDAN Yes. Amor t iza t ion paymen ts on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regard ing the or ig inal amount of the foreign loans. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. n.a. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Up to 50% of earnings can be transferred abroad, provided that certain documen ts are presented. Indicative limits/bona fide test n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Sudanese na t iona ls work ing abroad are required to remit annu a l ly to domestic resi- dents a m i n im um amount of foreign exchange, rang ing from $300 to $5,000. Excep- tions are allowed. Since March 13, 1997, all proceeds may be surrendered to commercial banks. Ship- ping agencies are required to sell all foreign exchange proceeds to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts On collective inves tment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations F inanc ial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 847 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inwa rd direct investment Yes. Yes. Investments are subject to the approval of the investment authority. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Repatriation must be approved by the BOS after submission of audited balance sheets and tax clearance certificates. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On June 30, 1997, a 4% reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was introduced. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. No. No. Exports and export proceeds December 31. Surrender requirements for export proceeds were revised downward. Changes During 1997 Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 13. All proceeds may be surrendered to commercial banks. June 30. A reserve requirement of 4% on foreign currency deposits was introduced. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Export duties were reduced by three percentage points. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 29, 1978. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Suriname is the Suriname guilder. Three gold coins are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange rates are freely determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange houses may trade foreign exchange with customers, among themselves, or with the Central Bank of Suriname (CBS) on a freely negotiable basis. The CBS also trades foreign exchange with the government, but not with importers. The CBS determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, wh ich is based on the weighted-average rate of commercial bank transactions over the last f ive days. Commercial banks charge commissions of 2% on sales of foreign exchange and 9.25% on transfers. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries are not permitted; they mus t, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies (Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guy- ana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars). The CBS (1) is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for pay- ment) —this func t ion has been delegated to commercial banks; and (2) approves im- port licenses if imports are paid w i th an LC. Commercial banks (1) provide foreign exchange for imports. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for inv is ib le payments not requ i r ing an exchange license, banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter subm i ts an ex- change license; and (2) may accept free of license those inwa rd transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad. The M in is try of Trade and Industry (MTI) grants export and import licenses. How- ever, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for the ir own import re- quirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for the ir indus tr ial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for impor ts from the ir own foreign exchange holdings. The Federal Exchange Commission (FEC) (1) grants licenses for external paymen ts other than imports of goods; (2) approves foreign loans; and (3) appo in ts authorized banks. 848 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 849 International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions n.a. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These arrears are owed largely to Brazil, n.a. Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the CBS and Gras- salco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the CBS. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes. Dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local pro- duction does not meet the demand for industrial purposes, the CBS may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins w i th face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250 are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for num isma t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and w i th other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad w i thout special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require exchange licenses issued by the FEC. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arr iv ing from abroad, however, may free ly bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the CBS w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are du ty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a du ty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tar iff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in add i t ion, impor ts are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to Sf 100. Exports in excess of $10,000 require a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to Sf 100. Travelers may b r ing in up to $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the coun t ry up to the amount they brought in and declared on en try. Resident Accounts Na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident nonbanks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts w i th domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in these ac- counts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely, except for travel, for wh ich there is a l im it of Sf 1,500 a person a year. Held domestically Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 850 SURINAME Held abroad Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresidents, whe ther banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in dollars w i th domes- tic banks w i th prior permission from the FEC; no overdrafts are permitted. These ac- counts may not be credited w i th Surinamese tender. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Sur iname guilders w i th domestic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Sur iname gu i lders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Au thor ized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents d raw ing pensions from the government or under company plans. A special perm it is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited w i th Sur iname banknotes mailed from abroad. Convertible into foreign currency n .a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit No. No. n.a. n.a. n .a. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses serve as a general authorization for payment. In case of payment by LC, the import license must be approved by the CBS. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for all imports and are valid for six months, du r ing wh ich period the goods must be landed and paid for. Positive list Negative l ist n.a. Imports of some commodities are prohibited: pigs (exc lud ing those for breeding); chicken, duck, and turkey meat; pork; fish (excluding kw ie kw ie f ish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegeta- bles (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus f ru i t s; bananas and plantains; coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets we igh ing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet); aromatized or colored sugar or sugar sy rup; noodles and macaroni; jam, je l ly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics); pea- nut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood; railroad ties; shingles; wooden structures for construction; wooden tiles and panels; wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men 's and boys' shoes (exc lud ing rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Open general licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 851 Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Commodities subject to quotas include kw ie kw ie f i sh, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, f ru i ts and nu ts (other than citrus fru i ts, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), de- caffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, fu rn i sh ing s, ready-made clothing, and fu rn i tu re (excluding that for business es tab l ishmen ts, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). In add i t ion to customs du t ies, a license fee of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all impor ts. A statistical fee of 2% is levied on the c .i .f. va lue of imports of baux i te com- panies, and 0.5% of the c.i.f. value of other imports, inc lud ing imports of gold. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Exports and Export Proceeds Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to ma in ta in current accounts in foreign currency w i th the ir parent companies abroad and to use these for specified paymen ts and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). Exporters of baux i te and bananas must surrender foreign exchange proceeds to the CBS at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Bauxite companies are not subject to export surren- der requirements but must sell foreign exchange to the CBS to pay for their local ex- penditures. Other exporters must surrender the ir proceeds to authorized commercial banks and are allowed to buy back up to 85% of the amount surrendered. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements To ve r i fy prices, the MTI ascertains w i th the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance w i th world market prices. Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. n.a. n.a. n .a. Exports require licenses issued by the MTI. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and p lan t ing materials are granted on ly on the advice of the Director of Ag- riculture, An im al Husband ry, and Fisheries. The export of bamboo wood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. n.a. n.a. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 100% of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite are subject to a statistical fee of 2% of their f.o.b. va lue, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of the ir f.o.b. value. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Transactions invo lv ing ou tward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licens- ing. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. In fo rma t ion on paymen ts and transfers for fre ight and insurance, un load ing and stor- age costs, adm in i s t ra t ive expenses, commissions, amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts, medical costs, study abroad, consu l t ing and legal fees, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, fam i ly ma in tenance and a l imony, and the use of credit cards abroad is not available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 852 Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits SURINAME License applications must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. n.a. n.a. n.a. Transfers of profits from investments made after Ju ly 31, 1953, are permitted. License applications must be supported by an aud i tor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Profits must be transferred w i th in three years; otherwise, they are consid- ered to have become part of the f i rm 's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20%. Transfers in accordance w i th these decisions have been temporarily suspended. n.a. Yes. n.a. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equiva- lent of $1,500 a person a calendar year. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign ex- change up to Sf 150 a month for payment of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, etc.) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. n.a. Yes. The head of a repatriating fam i ly may transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 p lus 10% of his or her total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued dur ing the period of residence. If his or her Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be trans- ferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 853 On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective inves tment securities Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requires the prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those un- dertaken for the account of their customers. Banks are required, in principle, to sur- render to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in their nonresident dollar accounts. n.a. n.a. Investments are not permitted, but exceptions may be made when it is considered beneficial to Surinamese interests. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person up to a max imum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, fu r ther annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of up to 10 years. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Transfers are permitted at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Also permitted are transfers of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign- owned companies or other forms of enterprise established by nonresidents w i th for- eign capital after Ju ly 31, 1953. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The FEC may allow emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum and subsequently Sf 5,000 a year. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 SURINAME Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks are permitted to place part of the ir l iqu id funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The CBS guarantees the LCs issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, wh i le the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a m i n im um level. This arrangement applies to the state-controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Du tch- owned Algemene Bank Nederland. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in the ir nonresident dollar accounts. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those un- dertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Currency The currency of Swaziland is the Swaz i land lilangeni (p lural emalangeni). Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies The lilangeni is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the ex- change rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the Swiss franc, and the pound sterling, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar and for the ECU. The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the PTA, based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the PTA clearinghouse. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Swaziland is part of the CMA; no restrictions are applied to paymen ts w i th in the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance with the terms and conditions ap- plied in that market. The CBS, on behalf of the M in i s t ry of Finance, controls all external currency transac- tions. In relations w i th countries outside the CMA, Swaz i land applies exchange con- trols that are generally s im i lar to those of South Afr ica. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports No. No. Yes. Yes. Domestic currency Exports of up to E 500 are allowed. 855 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 856 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency SWAZILAND Exports of the applicable travel entitlement are allowed. Imports of up to E 500 are allowed. Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Ind iv idua ls may hold foreign currency deposits of up to E 100,000 w i th local author- ized dealers. Approval is granted to export/import-oriented companies. Individuals cannot hold foreign currency deposits abroad, and companies are subject to approval and limited to required working balances. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and n a tu r al persons a re eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted securities w i th in Swaziland and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um financing requirements No. Yes. Advance payment requirement Advance paymen ts are limited to 33.33% of the ex-factory cost of the goods. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses en t i t le the holders to buy the foreign exchange required to make im- port payments. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Swaziland is a member of the SACU, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs un ion. Imports from South Afr ica, in c lud ing goods originating outside the customs un ion, do not require licenses. Imports from countries outside the customs un ion require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaz i land may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payment procedures. Import taxes and/or tariffs Swaziland applies the customs tariff system of SACU on imports from outside the customs union. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 857 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and w i th in the stipulated period. Surrender requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Contract notes are required. Export licenses Without quotas W i th quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to members of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. n.a. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, wh i le subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to estab- lished l im i ts is delegated to authorized dealers. All payments are subject to ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests. Payments for ad- m in is t ra t ive expenses, interest, pensions, gambling and prize earnings, the use of credit cards abroad, and the remittance of prof i ts and dividends require prior approval. Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval For business and holiday travel, permanent residents may purchase each year in for- eign exchange up to E 80,000 an adult, and E 25,000 a child under 12 years. Larger amoun ts are granted upon application when supported by proof of bona fide need. Study allowances for students in non-CMA countries are E 80,000 a year for single students, and E 160,000 a year for married students accompanied by their spouse. Travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation peri- ods are E 20,000 a year for single students, and E 40,000 a year for married students accompanied by the ir spouse. The l im it varies from one-third up to one-half of the gross mon th ly income. To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of under tak ing before departure. Quantitative limits Residents may use up to 100% of the approved travel fac i l i ty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 SWAZILAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments All inward capital transfers require the prior approval of the CBS and must be prop- erly documented in order to fac i l i ta te the subsequent repatriation of interest, d iv i- dends, profits, and other income. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases can be processed through normal banking channels either d irec t ly in foreign currency or through local currency nonresident accounts w i th in the CM A. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Balances in blocked accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Purchase abroad by residents App l ica t ions for most ou tward transfers of capital are considered on the ir mer i ts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is not allowed. F inanc ial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 859 To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd d irect inve s tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts App l ica t ions for most ou tward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Yes. No. Purchases by nonres iden ts are subject to approval. App l ican ts must go through the Land Speculation Board to determine if there is effective local demand. Sale locally by nonresidents n.a. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f t s, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Applicable to funds d rawn from blocked accounts. Yes. Yes. Borrow ing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad w i thout prior approval. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Inves tment regu la t ions In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 SWAZILAND Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate of the Swedish krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Yes. The Sveriges Riksbank, the central bank, and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Sweden notified the IMF on August 7, 1992, that, in compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions w i th regard to payments and transfers in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were imposed. Financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited in accordance with UN Se- cur i ty Council Resolution No. 661 (1990) and other relevant resolutions. Certain re- strictions were imposed on Angola and Libya (UN Security Resolutions No. 748 (1992) and No. 864(1993)). In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. 861 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 SWEDEN Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, inc lud ing persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for pay- ments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are blocked for the Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) and Libya. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports on most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than countries of the EFTA or countries that are parties to the EEA, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Certain goods (such as fireworks, gloves, bicycles, brushes, etc.) from China are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. Im- ports from Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. Import restrictions apply to certain categories of food as well as narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive mate- rials, and others, and to certain imports from Ch ina (shoes, porcelain, toys, etc.). As a result of Sweden's membership in the EU, as of Janua ry 1, 1995, the importation of textiles and clothing from more than 50 countries has been subject to restrictions or licensing for surveillance purposes. Agricultural and f ishery products have also been subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel products from Russ ia, Ukra ine, and Kazakhstan are also subject to restrictions. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs du ty. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions, w i th a few exceptions. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 863 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments The restriction applies on ly to shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa tory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct inves tment in f i sh ing and c iv il av ia t ion. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. No. No. Laws on inward investment and establishment apply to inves tment in f ish ing, c iv il aviation, and transport and commun ica t ions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition No. Yes. For pruden t ial reasons, there are general guidelines related to credit ins t i tu t ions' and securities f i rm s' net positions in foreign currencies. These guidelines stipulate l im i ts on both positions in a single currency —15% of the capital base, and on the total net position of all currencies —30% of the capital base. Same provisions apply as for open foreign exchange position limits. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. No officially fixed prem iums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions No. No. No. Certain restrictions have been imposed in respect of Iraq and Libya. On the basis of UN sanctions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Iraq and Libya. Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, wh ich are issued freely, are required for commercial im- ports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Yes. 864 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 865 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Licenses are required mostly for agricultural products. Import controls apply only for defense-sensitive products. Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly The importation of alcohol, butter, and wheat grain is a partial state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes The system is operated in part with the assistance of semiofficial or private organizations. Exports of weapons, dual-use goods for the production of conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction are restricted (approval is required). No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 866 SWITZERLAND Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In case of any disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a perm it requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents require approval by the canton in wh ich the property is s i tua ted. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal government. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. Provisions specific to institutional investors For insurance companies, the overall l im it is 30% if invested in bonds denominated in Swiss francs and 20% if invested in bonds denominated in foreign currencies. For life insurance, the overall l im it is 30% with limits for equities, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5% of the total portfolio, respectively. L im i ts (max .) on portfolio invested abroad Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The exchange rate system consists of f ive off ic ial rates and two unofficial rates. The off ic ial rates are (1) the off ic ial rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1 applies to the repayment of loans and interest arising from bilateral payment agreements; (2) the budget ac- counting rate, introduced on January 2, 1996, applies to public sector exports of petro- leum, all government imports (including essential subsidized commodities and invisibles), and repayment of loans and interest not related to bilateral payment agreements. On January 1, 1998, this rate was changed to LS 45.45/45.50 per $1; (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 45.00/45.50 per $1 applies to all public and private capital inflows, the 25% of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75% of export proceeds retained by private sector exporters that is not used to finance their own or others' imports; to travel allowances; to tour- ism and medical expenses; to student allowances; to remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange; to all public sector enterprises' foreign exchange transactions; to earnings of staff of UN and dip- lomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; and to domestic expenses of foreign oil companies; (4) the promotion rate of LS 20.22 per $1 is used only for payments of allowances to students who started overseas study before January 1, 1991 and no longer has practical application; and (5) the government fee rate of LS 45.45/45.50 per $1 applies to a number of fees, including those on transit and port services, and for customs valuation of some imports. The unoff ic ial rates are (1) the free market rate, wh ich stood at LS 52.10 per $1 on December 31, 1997, and (2) the export proceeds rate in wh ich a market-determined rate applies to goods that may be imported only w i th foreign exchange earned through exports. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to import goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in th is market. In December 1997, the exchange rate in th is market stood at LS 55 per $1. The Syrian pound is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 p e r $ l. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The Exchange Office (EO) prescribes the currencies that may be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All pay- ments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. With few exceptions, non-Syrians v is i t ing the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements B i la teral payment arrangements Operative There is an agreement w i th the Islamic Republic of Iran. 867 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 868 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency There is an agreement w i th Russia and Sri Lanka. n.a. n.a. n.a. The M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade (MOEFT) determines policy w i th regard to imports and exports, and issues import licenses. The EO issues exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions. n.a. Yes. Yes. Imports of gold are subject to import licensing, wh i le export proceeds must be surren- dered to the Commercial Bank of Syria (CBOS). Syrian banknotes may not be exported. However, travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance may take w i th them up to LS 5,000 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. Residents traveling abroad may take w i th them foreign exchange up to $2,000 a tr ip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Nonresidents are permitted to bring un l im i ted amounts of Syrian currency w i thout a declaration. Foreign currency Nonresidents are permitted to bring up to $5,000 w i thout a declaration. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic. Effective January 25, 1998, deposits may be transferred to other resident accounts on the condition that these accounts receive their resources from abroad. Deposits in the form of banknotes may be w i thd rawn only in that fo rm, unless trans- ferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, and other similar noncommercial purposes. Deposits for a term of 90 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Residents not invo lved in export ac t iv i t ies and w i sh ing to open transferable foreign currency accounts are required to present wr i t ten evidence that they have sources of income from abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 869 Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresidents may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the CBOS for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad w i thout restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Tempo- rary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies through payment conventions. Prior approval is required. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds in foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and w i th other receipts in foreign currencies; they may be debited w i thout prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Convertible in to foreign currency No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments The foreign exchange requirements of the state trad ing agencies are met from the an- nual foreign exchange budget; these agencies au toma t ica l ly receive import licenses upon submission of documentation of the ir import requirements. When foreign exchange is not made available, private imports must be financed w i th the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the CBOS at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. A number of goods may only be imported using foreign exchange generated through exports. n.a. n.a. A non-interest-bearing advance deposit is required for pub l ic sector imports for an amount equal to 100% of the value of the imports p lus a 3% fee. Private sector im- ports are not subject to th is requirement. n.a. n.a. Private importers are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening LCs at the CBOS. Import licenses used as exchange licenses n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged upon the issuance of an import license. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain indu s t r ial goods and for goods w i th a free-zone value added of at least 40%. Imports of com- modities o r ig ina t ing in Israel are prohibited. The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import includes certain agricul- tural goods, indus t r ial goods, and raw materials. Impor ts of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, w i th certain exceptions. Imports must come directly from the country of or ig in, but the MOEFT has the au tho r i ty to permit certain goods to be im- ported from countries other than the country of origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Import taxes and/or tariffs An import surcharge of 2% is imposed on all imports; government imports and im- ports of certain essential items are exempted. Imports for customs du ty purposes are valued at d i f fe rent exchange rates (11 .25%, 23%, and 43%), according to the catego- ries of goods, while import ta r i f fs range up to 200%. All previous special levies on impor ts have been replaced by a un i f ied impo rt surcharge rang ing from 6% to 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. State import monopoly Many basic commodities (such as paper, salt, tobacco, and whea t), as well as iron and steel, and certain agricultural mach inery, are imported on ly by state t rad ing agencies or by certain private sector importers for their own account. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Exporters are required to repatriate and surrender the proceeds to the CBOS w i t h in 60 days of the date of sh ipment to Lebanon, w i t h in four mon ths of the date of sh ipm ent to other Arab countries, and w i th in six months of the date of sh ipment to any other country. Private sector exporters are required to surrender 25% of the ir export pro- ceeds to the CBOS at the rate in ne ighbor ing countries and to retain the rema inder to finance permitted imports. The pub l ic sector enterprises may retain 100% of the ir export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts. In the case of f ru i ts and vegeta- bles, pub l ic and private sector exporters may retain 100% of the proceeds. Financing requirements The CBOS may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products. Documentation requirements Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. The ceiling on the value of goods that ind iv idual traders may carry in a suitcase when leaving the coun try was raised from LS 100,000 to LS 300,000 on Janua ry 5, 1997 and eliminated on August 10, 1997. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton ya rn, and the ir der iva t ives are made by the government organizations dealing in cereals and cotton. Petroleum products are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Yes. Products of agricultural origin are subject to the agricultural production tax of 12.5% ad valorem. This tax may be reimbursed in 1998 for f ru i ts and vegetables, cotton and cotton seeds, and olives upon proof of their export or the export of the ir processed products. The processed products that qua l i fy for tax reimbursement inc lude dried, frozen, and processed f ru i ts and vegetables; ginned cotton, cotton wool, and cotton clothing; cotton seed oil; and olive oil. The 5% ad valorem export tax on f r u i ts and vegetables was abolished on February 23, 1997. Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Most payments for inv is ib les require prior approval and must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Informa t ion on the application of qu an t i t a t ive and ind ica t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide test is not available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 871 Profit/dividends Remittances must be authorized by the EO upon proof of payment of income tax. Profits from projects approved by the H igher Committee for Inves tment under the new investment law may be repatriated freely. Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Residents trave l ing abroad may take w i th them foreign exchange up to $2,000 a t r ip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of th is amoun t, up to the equ iva lent of LS 5,000 a tr ip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon), and up to the equ iva lent of LS 7,500 a tr ip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance but may take w i th them up to LS 5,000 a t r ip in Syrian banknotes. For children 15 years of age and younger, the allowances are 50% of the above amoun ts. For travel to countries w i th wh ich payment arrangements are ma in ta ined, 50% of the travel allocation must be hand led th rough the clearing account concerned (30% for business travelers). On departure, residents of Syr ian na t iona l i ty mu st pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if t rave l ing to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport s tamp tax of LS 200 is added to th is tax. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take w i th them the entire amount of the allocation on producing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad; otherwise, they may take w i th them only the foreign exchange equ iva lent to 25% of the above-mentioned allocations. Yes. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the M in is try of Health. Yes. The allowance for education is subject to prior approval from the M in is t ry of Higher Education. Yes. Up to 60% of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic and 50% of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected w i th foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Gambling/prize earnings n.a. Family maintenance/alimony Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad The l im it is LS 250 for each transfer and requires presentation of proof of need, n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from a few transactions by the public sector must be sold at the o f f ic ial rate and the remainder, plus those from transactions by the private sector, must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. All Syrian employees working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on the ir profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxu ry items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equ iva lent funds are surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and convert a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Restrictions on use of funds Yes. m in imum of 25% of each year's earnings received in foreign exchange at the rate in neighboring countries. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments All capital transfers to and from the Syrian Arab Republic take place at the rate in neighboring countries..Exports of capital require the approval of the EO. On capital market securities There is no market in medium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Republic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to supplement their capital base. Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. The only instruments available in the Syrian Arab Republic are inves tment bonds issued by the Popular Credit Bank (PCB) as agent of the government. The bonds, wh ich carry an interest rate of 9% a year, have a ten-year ma tu r i ty but a short-term effective holding period, as they are redeemable after three to six months. They may be purchased only by nonbank Syrian residents and by the PCB itself. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents There is no collective inves tment ins t i tu t ion in the Syrian Arab Republic. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Syrian Arab Republic provides special facilities for the inves tment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of A rab countries, inc lud ing a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Projects w i th m in imum fixed assets of LS 10 million that are approved by the government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, inc lud ing exemption from customs ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 873 duties of imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed companies with at least 25% public participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years, and private companies are exempted for f ive years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts to finance convertible currency require- ments. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75% of foreign currency exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guarantee agreements w i th France, Germany, Switzer- land, and the United States. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after f ive years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Nonresidents and foreign nationals may acquire immovable property only after pre- senting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equ iva lent of the price of property at the authorized local bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds are required to be held in a blocked account and repatriated gradua l ly. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. n.a. Yes. There is an annual credit plan. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds January 2. The budget accounting rate was adjusted to LS 34.95/35.00 per $1 from LS 22.95/23.00 per $1. January 5. The ceiling on the value of goods that ind iv idual travelers may carry in a suitcase when leaving the country was raised from LS 100,000 to LS 300,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC February 23. The 5% ad valorem export tax on f ru i ts and vegetables was abolished. August 10. The ceiling on the value of of goods that ind iv idual travelers may carry in a suitcase when leaving the country was eliminated. Changes During 1998 January 1. The budget accounting rate was adjusted to LS 45.45/45.50 per $1 from LS 34.95/35.00 per $1. January 25. Foreign exchange regulations were amended to permit the transfer of deposits from one resident account in foreign exchange to another resident account on the condition that the accounts receive the ir resources from abroad. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds January 1. A number of agricultural products were exempted from the ag r icu l tu ral production tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik ruble. The use of other currencies is not prevented. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing The official buy ing and selling exchange rates of the National Bank of Tajikistan (NET) are based on the rates resu l t ing from auctions held at the Tajik Interbank For- eign Currency Exchange (TICEX) in Dushanbe. In determining the amount to be auc- tioned, the NET considers the ava i lab i l i ty of in te rna t ional reserves, but the ma in consideration is to ma in ta in a stable exchange rate. The interbank and retail markets transact at freely determined rates, but these rates are generally based on, and close to, the TICEX rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive paymen ts and transfers in any con- vertible currency as we ll as in Tajik rubles. Residents and nonresidents may not use foreign exchange for domestic transactions, except for special cases as defined by the authorities. Commercial transactions w i th nonresidents must be conducted via corre- spondent accounts maintained either by authorized commercial banks or by the NBT. Yes. There are inopera t ive agreements w i th the CIS countries, and negotiations for settle- ment of balances have been concluded. Barter agreements and open accounts All barter trade, except for a l um i n um, has been prohibited since Janua ry 1, 1998. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The NBT (1) acts as nonexc lus ive agent for the Republic of Ta j ik is tan in the adm in i- stration of foreign exchange controls; (2) issues licenses to commercial banks to con- duct bank ing operations and foreign currency operations; (3) is exc lus ive ly responsible for the supervision and regulation of f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions; (4) manages o f f ic ial foreign exchange reserves; and (5) formulates basic foreign exchange policy. The M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) registers foreign investors for inward direct inves tmen t. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Yes. 875 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 Private TAJIKISTAN Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Trade in gold is regulated by the Committee on Precious Metals and Semiprecious Stones. Controls on external trade Jo int ventures that extract gold are subject to controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Importation and exportation of foreign currency banknotes and Tajik ruble banknotes are freely permitted, subject only to the declaration of amounts over $500. On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Imports are permitted, provided customs rules are observed. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted under the Law on Foreign Currency Control. However, these accounts require authorization from the NET. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuc lear mate- rials is proh ib i ted. A un i fo rm 10% import tariff is imposed on all imports. Effective Janua ry 1, 1998, the rate was lowered to 5%. Na tu ral gas and a lum ina are exempt from the du ty, as are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 877 electricity and grain combines. Beginning Apr il 1, 1998, customs duties are collected on alcohol and cigarette imports in fixed amounts, depending on the quantity of goods imported (liters and units). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds may be either held by exporters in foreign currency ac- counts w i th domestic banks or sold in the interbank market. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements For exports of cotton, a 100% advance payment is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these paymen ts, except for qu an t i t a t ive l im i ts imposed on the transfer of foreign workers' wages. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF and NET approval is required for the purchase of 10% of shares, and the pur- chases of shares among shareholders is restricted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Only ju r id ical persons may issue these instruments; registration with the MOF and approval of the NBT are required. Bonds or other debt securities Registration w i th the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 TAJIKISTAN Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale by nonresidents is permitted. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. On collective inve s tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents If the security is issued in foreign currency, NBT approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to a 90-day ma tu r i ty. To residents from nonresidents There are no restrictions for loans of up to a 180-day ma tu r i ty. F inanc ial credits There are no restrictions for loans of up to a 180-day ma tu r i ty. For ma tur i t ies over 180 days, NBT approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions for such fac i l i t ies of up to a 180-day ma tu r i ty. For those w i th ma tu r i t ies over 180 days, NBT approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment NBT approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad On ly authorized foreign exchange banks may borrow from abroad. M a in t en an ce of accounts abroad No regulations exist on ma in tenance of accounts abroad. Lending to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commercial credits) Lend ing loca l ly in fore ign exchange Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Inves tment regu la t ions TAJIKISTAN 879 There are no such securities in Tajikistan. Reserve requirements were un if ied at 20% on January 13, 1997. The l im it is 20% of capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The aggregate open position is limited to 20% of bank capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Changes During 1997 December 31. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from independently f loa t ing to managed floating. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions January 13. Reserve requirements were un i f ied at 20%. Changes During 1998 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. All barter trade, except for a lum inum, was prohibited. Imports and import payments January 1. The un iform tariff rate was reduced to 5% from 10%. April 1. Customs duties are to be collected on alcohol and cigarette imports in fixed amounts, depending on the quan t i ty of goods imported (liters and un i ts). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1996. Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the Tanzania shilling is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tanzania (EOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth move- ments that are caused by transitory factors. The official exchange rate is based on the interbank market rate and remains w i th in a 2% band around the current day 's market rate. No. No. Authorized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate r isk. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an agreement w i th Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the COMESA, SADC, and East African Cooperation. There are agreements w i th Kenya and Uganda. The Minister of Finance (MOF) has delegated authority to administer exchange con- trol, including in Zanzibar, to customs and the BOT. The BOT delegates au thor i ty to make payments abroad to all licensed banks. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency n.a. Yes. n.a. No. Travelers may take out of the country up to the equ iva lent of $100. Nonresidents are allowed to export notes as souvenir or for num i sma t ic purposes on ly. However, 880 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 881 following a currency covertibility agreement reached w i th Uganda and Kenya, resi- dents may carry and cross any of the three borders with any amount of currency from the three countries. Nonresident travelers may take out of the country foreign currency notes and traveler's checks of any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought into Tanzania. Re turn ing travelers from outside East Africa may bring in up to the equivalent of $50. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. These accounts are exceptionally reserved for UN-related organizations. Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Nonresident accounts are maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tan- zania; by f i rms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by foreign diplomatic missions, the UN, or other international organi- zations and their officials in Tanzania. The balances of nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the BOT. There are six subcategories of nonresident accounts: external, sh ipp ing /a ir l ine, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspecified. Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports On March 17, 1997, authorized dealers were permitted to handle cases of advance payments. However, advance payments may not exceed 25% of the contract price and should be solely and exclusively for capital goods. The transaction must envisage de l ivery of goods w i th in 365 days. The release of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 requires an import declaration form and a clean report of findings. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Imports of goods exceeding $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 882 TANZANIA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports to the ma in land from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Customs tar iffs are levied on the c.i.f. va lue of imports. There are four rates: 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40%. Low ta r i f fs are also charged on imports of machinery. Specific du t ies are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as we ll as to religious, educational, and welfare ins t i tu t ions. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports from the ma in land must be repatriated w i th in three mon ths for nonmanufactured goods, and six months for manufactured goods, of the date of expor- tation. However, commercial banks are empowered to consider extensions. Proceeds from exports of traditional goods from Zanzibar must be repatriated. No. No. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection only takes place at the request of the buyer and importer. Licenses for exportation from the mainland are required for only a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Yes. A tax of 2% is levied on t rad i t ional exports. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Medical costs The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Commercial banks and certain other institutions have the authority to approve remit- tances abroad of up to one-third of the salary, throughout the period of employment, of foreigners temporarily working in Tanzania under contract and hav ing a f i rm comm i tment to leave the country. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 883 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers to all countries are subject to approval by commercial banks. All transfers of foreign currency funds from residents to nonresidents or to foreign- controlled resident bodies require specific approval from the BOT. S im i lar ly, transfers of funds from nonres iden ts to residents require BOT approval. On cap i tal market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Shares issued abroad can be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired w i th externally generated funds. These purchases have to be reported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n .a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds issued abroad can be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired w i th externally generated funds. These purchases have to be reported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins t rumen ts On collective inves tment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Un t il March 19, 1997, all loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies required approval from the BOT. Credits to resi- dents from nonresidents are subject to external debt management regulations. For deferred paymen ts not exceeding 365 days, authorized dealers may give approval subject to guidelines of terms of such payments issued by the BOT. Effective March 20, 1997, the requirement for BOT approval in respect of applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external f inanc ing fac i l i t ies, and deferred payment arrangements exceeding 365 days by residents or companies was removed. Commercial credits F inanc ial credits Guaran tees, sure t ies, and f i n a n c i al backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 884 TANZANIA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments require BOT approval. All foreign direct investment must be approved by the Investment Promotion Center; some areas are reserved for investment by the public sector, and certain other areas are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be repatriated, plus authenticated documents conf irm ing payment of all taxes, based on the delegated authority from the BOT. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require BOT approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Borrowing is subject to external debt management regulations. Otherwise, banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions are allowed to operate credit lines w i th correspondents. Lend ing to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of core capital. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 1997 March 17. Authorized dealers were permitted to hand le cases of advance paymen ts. However, advance payments may not exceed 25% of the contract price and shou ld be solely and exclusively for capital goods. The transaction must envisage delivery of goods w i th in 365 days. March 20. The requirement for BOT approval in respect of applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external f inanc ing fac i l i t ies, and deferred paymen ts arrangements exceeding 365 days by residents or companies was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Currency Exchange rate structure Un i tary Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai baht. On Ju ly 2, 1997, the authorities introduced a two-tier currency market that created separate exchange rates for investors who buy baht in domestic and overseas markets. Effective January 30, 1998, the two-tier foreign exchange market was unified. Up to Ju ly 1, 1997, the external value of the baht was determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies of Tha i land's major trading partners. Effective July 2, 1997, the exchange rate of the baht was determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. The baht-dollar reference exchange rate is announced daily based on the average exchange rate of the previous day. No. No. Forward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and cus- tomers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions must be related to underlying trade and financial transactions. The forward premium in the baht-dollar rate is freely determined and usua l ly reflects interest rate differentials. On May 28, 1997, the Bank of Thailand (BOT) imposed temporary limits on outright forward transactions in baht with nonresidents and on the selling of baht spot to nonresidents, and requested banks to subm it daily reports of foreign exchange transactions w i th nonresidents inc lud ing all spot, forward, and swap transactions, as well as purchase of debt instruments from nonresidents, to the BOT. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Thailand is a member of the ASEAN. The BOT on behalf of the M in is t ry of Finance (MOF) administers exchange controls, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewe lry, gold coins, and un- worked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commod i ty fu tu res exchanges are prohibited. 885 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 886 THAILAND Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewe l ry are proh ib i ted, un less a license has been obtained from the MOF or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or p l a t i n um ornaments, and other articles w i thout restriction. Exports of gold bu l l ion are proh ib i ted. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in va lue must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when subm i t t ing import or export en t ry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export du ty or taxes. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those t rave l ing to V i e tn am and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a m ax imum of B 500,000. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Approval is not required to open these accounts if funds originate from abroad and, upon depositing, the depositors must submit the documents showing their obligations to pay in foreign currency to persons residing abroad w i t h in three mon ths from the date of deposit and can deposit amounts not exceeding their obligations. The total outstanding balances in all accounts should not exceed $5 m i l l ion for a jur id ical per- son and $500,000 for a na tural person. On June 10, 1997, baht proceeds from sales of stocks by nonresidents were required to be converted into foreign currency at the on- shore exchange rate. These accounts are permitted; approval is required if deposits are made w i th funds of domestic origin. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted; approval is not required if funds originate f rom abroad. These accounts are permitted; approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose value exceeds B 500,000 when subm i t t ing import entry forms to customs, ex- cept for certain goods, such as m i l i ta ry equ ipment imported by the M in i s t ry of De- fense, donated goods, and samples. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 887 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most commodities may be freely imported, but impo rt licenses are required for certain goods. M i lk producers are required to purchase locally produced milk in some quan- t i ty when they import skimmed milk into Thailand. Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some goods are proh ib i ted for protective or social reasons. Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on impor ts. In addition, special duties are levied on certain commodities, and surcharges are levied on imports that compete w i th the ou tput of promoted domestic f i rm s. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Effective September 23, 1997, export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be repatri- ated w i th in 120 days from the date of exportation. Effective January 7, 1998, export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after payment is received and w i th in 120 days from the date of export. Effec t ive September 23, 1997, foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in 15 days of receipt. From September 8, 1997, foreign ex- change earners were allowed to deposit their foreign exchange in their foreign cur- rency accounts only if they have obligations to pay out such amoun ts to nonresidents abroad w i th in three months from the deposit date. Effective September 8, 1997, exporters receiving packing credits from the BOT through the Export-Import Bank of Thailand are required to sign a forward contract to sell the ir foreign exchange w i th a commercial bank selling promissory notes to the Export-Import Bank. The forward contract must specify the amount of foreign cur- rencies in terms of bah t, wh ich cannot be less than 50% of the face va lue of the prom- issory note. Exporters are required to complete a foreign exchange transaction form for transac- tions exceeding B 500,000 when subm i t t ing the export entry form at customs. Exports of rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and textile products are subject to licensing and quan t i ta t ive restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of des t ina t ion. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to h igher ad valorem or specific du t ies. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Foreign exchange transac t ion forms must be completed for transac t ions of more than $5,000. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Effective September 23, 1997, proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Thailand w i th in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 888 THAILAND 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and inter- national organizations are exempted from th is requirement. Effective January 7, 1998, proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in seven days of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions The sale or issue of securities is under the jur isd ic t ion of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Under the securities law, the same rules and regulations apply to both capital market securities (those w i th a ma tu r i ty over one year) and short-term money market securities (those debt securities w i th maturity of not more than one year). Foreign issuers must comply w i th the same rules and regulations as local issu- ers. Under those regulations, any companies w ish ing to issue securities to the pub l ic need to be approved by the SEC and file the disclosure documents w i th the SEC for public access. Foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of the total amount of shares sold in locally incorporated banks, f inance companies, credit finance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an ind iv idual and his/her related family members must not exceed 5% of a bank's total amount of shares sold and 10% of that of finance companies and credit foncier companies. Foreign equ i ty participation is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. On June 28, 1997, the foreign ownership limit of 25% of the amount of shares sold for financial ins t i tu t ions was lifted on a case-by-case basis w i th the approval of the MOF. On October 13, 1997, foreign investors were allowed to hold more than 49% of the total shares sold in local financial institutions for up to 10 years. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On June 10, 1997, baht proceeds from sales of stocks by nonresidents were required to •be converted into foreign currency at the onshore exchange rate. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The potential issuer must subm it an app l ica t ion for approval to the SEC, and permis- sion w i ll be granted if the issuer can prove that the issue w i ll only be traded overseas, both in the primary or secondary market. There are no restrictions associated w i th the transfer of proceeds on funds to service debt abroad. All debt-service paymen ts can be made freely. Bonds or other debt securities Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval from the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. However, f inance companies are allowed to issue negotiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) and b i l ls of exchange in foreign currency w i th more than a one-year ma tu r i ty for sale to the public abroad or for sale to in s t i tu- tions that are authorized to operate in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds as- sociated w i th these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these in s t rum en ts can be made freely. There are no restrictions on the purchase of securities offered by local fund manage- ment companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The same regulations apply as for money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval of the BOT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct investment THAILAND 889 The launch ing of funds requires approval from the SEC, both locally and abroad, and only local fund management companies are allowed to issue this instrument. In addi- tion, funds managed by local f irms w i ll be deemed to have Thai nationality regardless of the na t iona l i ty of the ma jo r i ty of the u n it holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these ins t rumen ts may be made freely. A securities company is not permitted to purchase or sell fu tu res or options on securi- ties either in its own name or for customers, or to engage in any business that is not a licensed securities business, unless the SEC issues a no t i f ica t ion or grants an approval a l low ing such transactions or business. On June 2, 1997, the BOT introduced a series of measures to limit capital ou tf lows. These included measures (1) to limit transactions w i th nonresidents that could facili- tate the bu i ld-up of baht positions in the offshore market, including direct loans, over- draf ts, currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency options, and interest rate options; (2) to l im it ou t r ight forward transactions in baht w i th non- residents; (3) to l im it selling baht spot against foreign currencies to nonresidents; (4) to require payment in dollars for any purchase from nonresidents before ma tu r i ty of baht-denominated bills of exchange, promissory notes, certificates of deposit, and other debt ins trumen ts such as debentures and bonds, at the exchange rate prevailing in the domestic market on the purchase date; and (5) to submit daily reports of foreign exchange transactions with nonresidents, inc lud ing all spot, forward, and swap trans- actions, as well as purchase of debt ins t rumen ts from nonresidents, to the BOT. These measures do not apply to foreign exchange transactions w i th genuine under ly ing busi- ness related to the export and import of goods and services, direct investments, and various types of portfolio inves tment in Thailand. The issuance of warran ts or equity-related ins trumen ts and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria is based on the soundness of the under ly ing stock. There is no discriminatory practice against nonresidents for par t ic ipa t ing in the f inanc ial market. The purchase of de r iva t ive in s t rumen ts by residents and the t rans fer of f u n ds requ ire approval by the BOT. On June 10, 1997, the BOT l im i ted transac t ions w i th nonresidents that could fac i l i ta te the bu i ld-up of baht positions in the offshore market, including direct loans, over- drafts, currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency options, and interest rate options. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred paymen ts, bilateral ne t t ing, or open accounts. Most paymen ts are settled w i th in 120 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits subject to the ru le of net foreign exchange position. Residents may only grant loans to their affiliated compa- nies if they own at least 25% of total shares in the company and up to $10 m i l l ion a year w i thout approval from the BOT. There is no restriction on these credits. Repayment of f inanc ial credits to nonresidents can be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay to nonresidents in foreign currency. Investments exceeding $10 million a year require approval from the BOT. Foreign capital may be brought into the country w i thout restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Thailand w i t h in seven days of receipt. Controls on liquidation of direct investment All proceeds can be repatriated w i thout restriction upon subm iss ion of suppor t ing evidence. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 890 THAILAND Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of property is not allowed w i th funds that originate from abroad. The foreign ownership l im it for condom in iums is 40% of the total value. Foreign ju r id ical entities w i th more than 49% shareholding in Thai companies are allowed to purchase property w i th in prescribed limits. Ownership of property by foreign entities w i th ma- jo r i ty shareholding in Thai f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions is, at present, governed by the Com- mercial Banking Act or the Act on the Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Bus iness, and Credit Foncier Business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Approval from the BOT is required. G i f ts, endowmen ts, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Inheritances and legacies are allowed up to $1 m i l l ion a year as cap i tal transfer w i th- out approval from the BOT. Thai residents are allowed to send up to $100,000 to the ir relatives abroad, who hold permanent resident permits, w i thout approval from the BOT. Thai emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad up to $1 m i l l ion a year w i thout approval from the BOT. Government f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not allowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency w i thout restriction. Commercial lending to par t icu lar industries denominated in foreign currencies can be pa r t ia l ly (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the po ten t ial risk that banks may not be fu l ly repaid as exchange rate risk is heightened. Commercial banks are required to ma in ta in at least 6% of the ir nonresident foreign exchange deposits of less than one-year ma tur i ty in the form of nonremunerated bal- ance at the BOT, and maintain at least 6% of those deposits of one-year or longer- ma tu r i ty in the forms of at least 2% balance at the BOT, at most 2% vau lt cash, and the rest in government and other eligible securities. Finance companies and f inance and securities companies are not allowed to accept foreign exchange deposits. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company ( inc lud ing public companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of the ir capital fund. Banks can seek approval to hold shares above the 10% l im it in the fo l low ing cases: (1) companies set up for suppor t ing func t ions; (2) companies that operate as financial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are beneficial to the economy, especially in f ras t ruc tu re projects. Foreign investors can invest in Thai commercial banks up to 25% of total amount of shares sold. However, foreign investors may be allowed, on a case-by-case basis, to hold up to 100% of shares sold in commercial banks, finance companies, and credit foncier companies for a period of 10 years, which w i ll be grandfathered. However, after the ten-year period, they w i ll not be allowed to purchase additional shares unless their ho ld ing is less than 49% of the total amount of shares sold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io inves ted abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds THAILAND 891 The ru le on net foreign exchange exposure l im i ts allows commercial banks to ma in ta in positions in terms of their first-tier capital of no more than 20% overbrought and 15% oversold. App roval from the EOT is requ ired. Mu tual funds and prov ident funds have to invest their total portfolio in the domestic market. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the f u nd can be invested in equ i ty and debenture issued by ju r id ical persons incorporated under the ASEAN Agreement or the Un i ted N a t ion 's Economic and Social Commis- sion for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) Agreement to specifically operate reinsurance business; and (2) the funds may be invested in equ i ty issued by nonresident ju r id ical persons other than specified in (1) w i th approval from the au tho r i t ies, and by us ing the su rp lus fund s. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. Portfolio investment of life and non l ife insurance companies is governed by the acts and no t i f ica t ions of the MOC. The criteria are as follows: (1) total inves tment in de- ben ture and equ i ty should not exceed 30% of the company's assets; (2) inves tment in un it trust should not exceed 20% of total assets; (3) rediscount of state enterprise bonds should not exceed 20% of total assets; and (4) investment in securities abroad must not exceed 5% of total assets and should have approval from the appropriate au thor i ty. The criteria for inves tment of Provident Fund are as fo l lows: (1) inves tment of at least 60% in government bonds, state enterprise bonds, deposits at commercial banks, and debt in s t rumen ts issued by commercial banks; and (2) inves tment of not more than 40% in prom issory notes of f inance companies, stocks, and other debt in- s trumen ts. In add i t ion, the ceiling on investment in stocks is 25% of the portfolio, and that on any s ing le stock is 5% of the portfolio. Under the Securities Ac t, there are no restrictions for nonresidents to have equ i ty par- t ic ipa t ion in Thai security companies. However, Na t ional Executive Decree No. 281 imposes a 50% l im it on non res iden t 's equ i ty par t ic ipa t ion in any company. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai securities market in the form of representative offices whose roles are l im i ted to prov id ing research material for their parent companies. In add i t ion, they are allowed to enter into jo int par tnersh ip w i th Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. Changes During 1997 May 28. Temporary l im i ts on ou t r ight forward transactions in baht w i th nonres iden ts and on the se l l ing of baht spot to nonresidents were imposed. July 2. The exchange rate of the baht was allowed to float freely, and a two-tier cur- rency market was introduced. June 10. Baht proceeds from sales of stocks by nonresidents were required to be con- verted into foreign currency at the onshore exchange rate. September 8. Exporters were allowed to deposit foreign exchange in the ir foreign currency accounts to pay ob l iga t ions to nonresidents due w i t h in three mon ths from the deposit date. September 8. Exporters receiving packing credits from the BOT through the Export- Import Bank of Tha i land were required to sign a forward contract to sell their foreign exchange w i th a commercial bank selling promissory notes to the Export-Import Bank. September 23. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be repatriated w i t h in 120 days from the date of exportation and surrendered to authorized banks w i t h in 15 days of receipt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 892 THAILAND Proceeds for invisible transactions and current transfers September 23. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts w i th in 15 days of receipt. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments June 28. The foreign ownership limit of 25% for financial institutions was lifted on a case-by-case basis. Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations October 13. Foreign investors were allowed fu ll ownership of local f inanc ial ins t i tu- tions for up to 10 years. June 2. The EOT introduced a series of measures to l im it capital inf lows. June 10. The BOT limited transactions w i th nonresidents that could facilitate the build-up of baht positions in the offshore market, including direct loans, overdrafts, currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency options, and interest rate options. Changes During 1998 Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds January 30. The two-tier foreign exchange market, in effect since Ju ly 1997, was un i f ied. January 7. Proceeds from exports must be brought into the country immediately after payment is received and w i th in 120 days from the date of export. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 7. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 7 days of receipt (previously 15 days). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc issued by the BCEAO. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01, wh ich is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Min- istry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than three months for essential or strategic goods and one month for all other goods. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Togo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, set- tlements with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account country. An Operations Account is maintained w i th the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or French francs against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the MEF, which also supervises the following: borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inwa rd direct inves tment and all outward inves tmen t; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior au thor iza t ion from the MEF. 893 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 894 TOGO Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is not p roh ib i ted. However, the BCEAO repurchase of exported banknotes remains suspended. Furthermore, transfers of BCEAO banknotes between the authorized intermediaries and the ir correspondents located outside the WAEMU are strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresidents is allowed up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these-ceilings requ ires documentation demons tra t ing either the impor ta t ion of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any ins t i tu t ion of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents and travelers bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency trave ler's checks exceed- ing the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 are required to declare all the means of payment they are carrying when entering or exiting Togo. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Only diamond-processing companies are free to open these accounts; all others must obtain a special au thor iza t ion from the MEF. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted subject to authorization from the MEF. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited w i th BCEAO banknotes w i thout prior au thor iza t ion. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 895 Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domiciliation) and submitting supporting docu- ments, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. All import transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an author- ized bank. Letters of credit LCs may be opened for all import operations, regardless of origin. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). The fo l low ing taxes are imposed on all imports: a statistical tax of 3%; fiscal import du t ies of 5%, 10%, and 20%; a VAT of 18%. W i th the exception of the VAT, wh ich is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. va lue of imports inc lus ive of fiscal import duties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Dom ic i l ia t ion Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, inc lud ing the Operations Account area, may not be later than 180 days after the arr ival of the goods at the ir destination. The proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date to the BCEAO through authorized intermediaries; authorized d iamond-purchas ing officers, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th authorized banks in Togo. No. Yes. n.a. All export transac t ions over CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MEF au tho r iza t ion. Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. Yes. Phosphate rock is subject to a specific export tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for i n v i s i- bles related to trade are permitted by a general au thor iza t ion when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 896 TOGO Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Current transfers abroad of funds required to service a loan must be authorized if the loan itself was subject to prior authorization. Payments for depreciation of direct investments require prior authorization from the MEF, as th is type of depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Indicative limits/bona fide test The MEF verifies transactions that require his authorization. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than CFA franc banknotes; amounts in excess of th is limit may be taken out in the form of other means of paymen t. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 w i thout limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a max imum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined w i th tourist allowances). Allowances in excess of these l im i ts must be authorized by the MEF or, by delegation, the BCEAO. Yes. Yes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national work ing in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work perm i t, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized agents. Family maintenance/alimony Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The l im i ts are the same as for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions w i th France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Transfers of capital abroad are subject to restrictions. Capital in f lows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted w i th the exception of direct inves tmen t, wh ich is subject to prior declaration, and certain borrowing operations, wh ich requ ire prior authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents TOGO 897 In line w i th the new direction of economic policy aimed at attracting foreign investment, new exchange laws currently being adopted by the WAEMU member states provide for the elimination of all restrictions on capital inf lows. In imp lemen ta t ion of the provisions indicated in th is document, the term "foreigner" refers to countries that are not members of the franc zone. However, w i th respect to the local issue and offer for sale of foreign securities, the term "foreigner" means all the countries outside the territory of the member state concerned. W i th the exception of the issue and sale in the country of foreign securities, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. However, by their na ture, these operations are still subject to the provisions governing foreign inves tment and lending. The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Togo by nonresidents require prior authorization by the MEF (Decree No. 69-231/PR of December 5, 1969, on certain f inanc ial operations abroad). Securities issued or offered for sale by a nonresident w i th prior authorization may be purchased by a resident only after the latter has obtained the prior consent of the MEF (Decree No. 69-232/MFEP/PR of December 5, 1969, on certain inves tment and bor- rowing operations abroad). The same applies to payments for these purchases by resi- dents (Order No. 410/MFE of December 31, 1968, establishing the imp lemen t ing modalities for Decree No. 216 of December 24, 1968, regulating f inanc ial relations abroad). There are no restrictions on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of in- vestment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations governing the f inanc ial settlement of the operation (Circular No. 012 MFEP of June 15, 1970, on inves tment and borrowing). Settlement of securites transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires that an exchange authorization be submitted to the MEF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation (Decree No. 216 of December 24, 1968, on f inanc ial relations abroad, Implementing Order No. 410/MFE of December 31, 1968, and Circular No. 28/MFE of December 31, 1968, on transfers abroad). The purchase of securities abroad by residents and the transfer abroad of funds for th is purpose are subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the MEF (Decree No. 69-232/MFEP/PR of December 5, 1969, and Order No. 410/MFE of December 31, 1969, respectively). Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in for- eign control of Togolese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to th is effect to the MEF. The sale of securities to l iqu ida te an inves tment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank (Decree No, 69-232/MFEP/PR of December 5, 1969, Circular No. 12/MFEP of June 15, 1970). Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. To issue the latter, the borrower must request prior authorization from the MEF. How- ever, loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that meet the specific conditions in terms of amount and interest rate (Circular No. 012/MFEP of June 15, 1970) do not require th is au thor iza t ion. Authorization is required for the transfer abroad of funds required to repay a loan, if the loan itself was authorized in advance. The authorization request must be accom- panied by supporting documentation attesting to the au then t ic i ty of the operation: borrowing au thor iza t ion, references from the report established at the t ime of encash- ment of the loan proceeds, etc. (Circular No. 012/MFEP of June 15, 1970.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 TOGO Bonds or other debt securities The same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing na ture. On money market ins t rumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market in s t rumen ts through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market ins trumen ts on the local market is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the MEF (w i th the exception of sales in connection w i th the l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts, wh ich are not subject to restrictions). The transfer of the proceeds of these operations requires that an exchange au tho r iza t ion be subm i t- ted to the MEF for approval, accompanied by suppo r t ing documen ta t ion. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no restrictions on the sale of money market ins t rumen ts abroad by residents. Sales to l iqu ida te an inves tment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or l iqu ida t ion must be surrendered to an authorized in termed iary bank. The issue by residents of money market ins t rumen ts abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective inves tment securities The same regulations app ly as for money market ins trumen ts. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These in s t rumen ts are almost nonex is tent in the zone. They are covered by the regula- tory framework that applies generally to securities and inves tmen ts. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents n.a. Yes. Yes. n.a. There are no restrictions on the granting of commercial credits by residents to non- resident entities on the fo l low ing conditions: (1) Claims arising from the export of goods must be recovered and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO w i th in 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. In principle, the due date stipulated in the com- mercial contract must be w i th in 180 days (Order No. 179/MFE of May 19, 1980); (2) Claims arising from the payment of services must also be encashed and surren- dered on the exchange market w i th in an overall max imum timeframe of two months from the payment due date. There is no administratively established l im it for this due date (Decree No. 216 of December 24, 1968, regulating financial relations abroad, Implementing Order No. 410/MFE of December 31, 1968). There are no restrictions on the granting of commercial credits by nonresidents to resident entities. Repayments of commerical credits are generally authorized on the provision of documentation attesting to the authenticity of the commercial transaction or provision of service, and the payment due date (Order No. 410/MFE of December 31, 1968). The gran t ing of f inanc ial credits, guarantees, sureties, and back-up credit fac i l i t ies by residents to nonresident entities is comparable to an inves tment abroad and requires the prior authorization of the MEF. The transfer abroad of the funds needed to service these facilities requires that an exchange authorization be submitted to the MEF, ac- companied by supporting documentation (Circular No. 28/MFE of December 31, 1968, on the execution of transfers abroad). The granting of f inanc ial credits, sureties, guarantees, or back-up credit fac i l i t ies by nonresidents to residents is regarded as a foreign investment in Togo. There are no restrictions on the granting of these facilities, and the funds required to service them must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary bank. However, if ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment TOGO 899 these operations take place between a direct investment company located in Togo and its parent company located abroad, they are regarded as direct investments and must, consequently, be declared in advance to the MEF. The same regu la t ions apply as for f inanc ial credits. Prior MEF au thor iza t ion is required. For statistical purposes, investments must be reported to the MEF before they are made. The M in is try may request postponement of the projects w i th in two months of receiving the declaration. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The l iqu ida t ion of investments must be reported to the MEF w i th in 20 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are controls on purchases when they do not invo lve direct inves tment in an enterprise, a branch, or a company. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital movements Loans These transactions require MEF approval. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Lenders must obtain prior authorization from the MEF unless the amount is CFAF 100 m i l l ion or less and the interest does not exceed the normal market rate. Loans to f inance imports and exports also do not require authorization. G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and dowries, which are in general specifically authorized, these settlements require prior authorization by the MEF. Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Immigrants who have acquired resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MEF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Upon proof of their emigration status, emigrants may transfer up to CFAF 250,000 a person w i thout prior authorization. Add i t ional amoun ts may be transferred upon authorization by the MEF. Borrow ing abroad Authorized agents are free to borrow from abroad. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to keep liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. No specific p rov is ions apply to banks for the gran t ing of loans, commercial or f inan- cial credits, and the purchase of securities abroad. In accordance with the general provisions of the exchange regulations, these operations may be executed freely w i th respect to commercial credits, or may be submitted for prior authorization to the MEF when loans, f inanc ial credits, and the purchase of foreign securities are involved. Local lend ing in foreign exchange or purchases of securities issued locally and de- nom ina ted in foreign exchange require prior au thor iza t ion by the MEF. (These opera- tions are not governed exp l ic i t ly by any regulatory prov is ion .) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 900 TOGO Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Such purchases require prior authorization by the MEF. (These operations are not governed explicitly by any regulatory provision.) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. The same regulations apply in general to all residents, investors, or beneficiaries of foreign investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Currency The currency of Tonga is the Tongan pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the pa'anga is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross foreign exchange liabilities must not exceed T$l million. Provision of forward ex- change cover for squash exporters requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No. No. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the MOF. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 901 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 902 TONGA Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for all imports, but they are issued freely for selected impo r ts, e.g., motor vehicles. Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Impo rt quotas app ly on ly to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers, but the restriction is not enforced. The impor ta t ion of certain items is restricted for cu l tu ral or env i ronmen tal reasons or to protect the hea l th and safe ty of residents. Import tar iffs of up to 35% are levied on an ad valorem basis. Imports of a few items (petroleum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific ta r i f fs or ad valorem rates of up to 300%. The tar iff rates on motor vehicles is 45%. Imports by the reigning monarch, by the government and the public sector, by diplomatic mis- sions, under certain technical assistance agreements, and impor ts of personal effects are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, which qua l i fy for conces- sional rates, and impor ts of government and quasi-government organizations, wh ich are exempt. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 12 months, but th is regulation is not enforced. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for all exports we igh ing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted liberally, except for squash. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Commercial banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for inv i s ib le payments. All paymen ts and transfers require prior approval and are subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve and ind ica t ive limits and/or bona fide tests, except for the amor t iza t ion of loans or depre- ciation of direct inves tmen t, consu l t ing and legal fees, gamb l ing and pr ize earn ings, family maintenance and a l imony, and the use of credit cards abroad. Shipping and airline agencies may remit income earned f rom ac t iv i t ies in Tonga upon producing income statements relating to local business ac t iv i t ies that have been sub- mitted to their respective head offices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 903 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The acquisition of foreign f inanc ial assets is, in principle, prohibited; in practice, the restriction is not strictly enforced because the repatriation requirement is not enforced. Yes. No. No. Licenses are required for direct foreign investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are accepted if there is a local partner, and simple projects that can be undertaken by locals are likely to be rejected. Investment in certain sectors, inc lud ing wholesale and retail; transportation and some tourism- related ac t iv i t ies; and all resource-based activities, such as f ish ing, are prohibited. However, jo int ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. No time period has been specified for the approval process, which can be qu i te lengthy; once licensed, foreign projects in manu fac tu r ing and tourism are f u l ly eligible for incentives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, w i th the public w i thout limitation. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kya ts, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the CARICOM. Au tho r i ty to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) acting under the authority of the M in is try of Finance (MOF). International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for num isma t ic purposes. Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between residents must be an authorized bank. Exports of gold are controlled by the M in is try of Trade and Indus try and are subject to specific export licenses, wh ich are normally issued only to monetary authorities. For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. For amoun ts exceeding US$5,000, a customs declaration is required. Residents and nonresidents may br ing in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amoun ts, a customs declaration is required. 904 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 905 Foreign currency Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in notes up to the equ iva lent of US$5,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Du ty-free licenses are granted to local concessionary manufac turers for imports of certain inputs for manufac tur ing. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and m in ing materials are subject to specific regulations. Imports of firearms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics are t igh t ly controlled. All goods, unless excepted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under OGL arrangements. The customs du ty rates on most goods range from 5% to 25%. The rate on agricultural produce is 40%. Du ty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewe lry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range from 20% to 25%. The du ty rates on motor vehicles range from 20% to 30%. All goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from du t ies, as are imports of some foods tuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted ex- emptions from customs duties by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry and the Tourism Indus tr ial Development Company, Ltd. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Impor ts of an im al feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded pr inc ipa l ly by state companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 906 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds In practice, the fore ign-owned pe t ro leum company operating in Tr in idad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange after p rov id ing for the equ iv a l ent of its local currency needs. No. No. No. I n d i v i d u al licenses are required for some foods tuffs, f i rea rms and explosives, an ima l s, gold, pe t ro leum and pe t ro leum products, and certain produc ts not produced loca l ly. Export licenses for all other commodities are granted under OGL. General licenses may also be issued at the d iscre t ion of the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indu s t ry. W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions Cross-border t rad ing of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is perm i t ted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. The ho ld ing of shares in local companies is subject to compliance w i th the provisions of the F inanc ial I n s t i t u t i o ns Act (1990). No. No. Ho ld ing shares in local companies is subject to compliance w i th the prov is ions of the Foreign Inves tment Act (1990). Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ho ld ing in terest in real estate is sub ject to compliance w i th the p rov is ions of the For- eign Inves tment Act (1990). Controls on personal capital movements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 907 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements A l iqu id asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts A l iqu id asset ra t io of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Insurance companies are required to hold at least 80% of the ir inves tment assets locally. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws The Insurance Act (1980) imposes other controls. Imports and import payments January 1. Customs du t ies were reduced to a range between 5% and 25% in compli- ance w i th the reduction schedule of the GET of the CARICOM. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Currency The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in wh ich commercial banks, inc lud ing offshore banks acting on behalf of the ir resident customers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. There is no l im it on the spread between the buy ing and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) in- tervenes in the market and pub l ishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the fo l low ing day, at the latest. On May 9, 1997, the CBT allowed domestic banks to trade foreign currencies in the spot market among them- selves, w i th the ir foreign correspondents, and w i th nonresident banks in Tunisia. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the inter- bank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on wh ich the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product con- cerned. Forward rates are freely negotiated by the transactor of the authorized coun- terpart bank. Forward cover may be established for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided w i th in 30 days of the date on wh ich the claim originated. Trading on 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month foreign currency op- tions in French francs, deutsche mark, and dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange. On May 9, 1997, the interbank market was opened to forward for- eign exchange operations. The CBT extends exchange rate guarantees to certain off ic ia l ly guaranteed loans, w i th risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between Tunisia and other countries may be made in any convertible cur- rency traded in the interbank market or in convertible Tun is ian d ina rs through foreign accounts. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Settlements between Tun is ia and Algeria, Libya, Mau r i tan ia, and Morocco may be effected th rough conve r t ib le accounts in the na t ional currencies concerned at the re- spective central banks. No. Exchange control is administered by the CBT and the M in i s t ry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates authority over paymen ts for imports and most inv is ib les to the author- ized banks, whereas the MOT adm in is ters foreign trade control, wh ich issues import and export au thor iza t ion for products when required. International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions Yes. 908 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On impor ts Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically TUNISIA 909 No. Yes. The CRT has a monopoly over the impor ta t ion and exportation of monetary gold. Imports and exports of gold in other forms require jo int approval from the CBT and the MOT. Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident travelers w ish ing to reexport the foreign exchange equivalent of amoun ts exceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign currencies they are impo r t ing upon their en try in to Tun is ia. There is no ce i l ing on the reconversion of Tun is ian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from d inar reconversion may be reexported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received abroad in the form of a check, draf t, money order, or any other evidence of a claim, or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or converti- ble dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also re- quired if the amount of foreign exchange from d inar reconversion exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 derived from the surrender of foreign currencies phys ica l ly imported from abroad. Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by any resident na tu ral per- son or any Tun is ian ju r id i c al person. The accounts may be debited for (1) payment of any current operation per ta in ing to the ac t iv i ty for wh ich they were opened, and (2) any other transaction w i th general or specific authorization. Balances may be placed on the foreign exchange market. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) a m ax imum of 40% of the account ho lder's export revenue; (2) interest accrued on the balances of these accounts; and (3) transfers from the account holder's other profes- sional accounts in the same currency or any other currency. Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (1) natural persons of Tunisian na t iona l i ty who are changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad, (2) resi- dent na tu ral persons of Tunisian na t iona l i ty or Tun is ian ju r id ical persons for the ir non transferab le assets leg i t ima te ly acquired abroad, and (3) Tun is ian d ip loma ts and c iv il servants stationed abroad. Funds leg i t ima te ly acquired abroad, not from the ex- portation of goods or services from Tun is ia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange sold on the interbank market; (2) foreign exchange rem i t ted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and o f fsp r ing to under take fore ign trave l; (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or conver t ib le d ina rs; and (4) any paymen ts abroad, inc lud ing those for the acquisition of movab le or real estate property located abroad or owne rsh ip r igh ts abroad, for foreign c la ims, and for paymen ts for imports subject to applicable foreign trade fo rma l i t ies. A statement of ho ld ing is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 TUNISIA He ld abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Professional accounts in conver t ib le d ina rs may be opened by res ident n a t u r al or ju- ridical persons w i th resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT au tho r iza t ion. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the CBT in the au thor iza t ion to open such accounts. Special accounts in conver t ib le dinars may be opened by the same na tu ral and j u r i d i- cal persons who may open foreign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be credited w i th the dinar proceeds f rom sales on the in terbank market of funds legiti- mately acquired abroad, but not from the expor ta t ion of goods or services from Tuni- sia. They may be debited for (1) paymen ts of any k ind in Tun is ia; (2) the acqu i s i t ion of foreign currencies either for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and o f f sp r ing, or for mak ing paymen ts abroad, p a r t i cu l a r ly for the acqu i s i t ion of movab le or real estate property located abroad, or owne r sh ip r igh ts abroad, for foreign claims and for paymen ts for impor ts subject to app l icab le foreign trade for- ma l i t ies; and (3) amoun ts credited to another special account in fore ign currency or convertible dinars. Special export earnings accounts in conver t ib le d inars may be opened by Tun is ian or fore ign na tu ral persons residing in Tun is ia who earn prof i ts from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident company earning p ro f i ts from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be freely credited w i th (1) 5% of the export earnings realized by the account ho lder or received from companies in wh ich he or she is a shareholder, (2) proceeds from sales on the in terbank market of foreign exchange represen t ing income or revenue from assets acquired abroad by deb i t ing the account, and (3) interest on balances in the account. Special export earnings accounts may be freely debited for (1) paymen ts of any k ind in Tun is ia; (2) purchases on the in terbank market of foreign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or offspr ing; and (3) paymen ts in connection w i th a current operation or to acquire r igh ts and in teres ts abroad not i n v o l v i ng real property. Nonresident Accounts J u r i d i c al and na tu ral persons are e l ig ib le. Foreign accounts in convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonres iden ts regardless of na t iona l i ty. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) receipts in con- vertible foreign currencies or the d inar proceeds from sales of conver t ib le currencies on the in terbank market. Banknotes must be declared to customs; (2) foreign exchange rem i t ted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the CBT th rough the deb i t ing of a foreign account in conve r t ib le d inars; (4) au tho r- ized paymen ts by residents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest payab le by the au thor ized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remune ra t ive rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) the amount of cashed checks, trave ler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other cred i t ing requires prior au thor iza t ion from the CBT, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) paymen ts of any k ind in Tun is ia (irrespective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers abroad or de l ivery of fore ign currency to the account ho lder, to any other nonresident benef ic iary, or to residents w i th the s ta tus of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) t rans fe rs to other foreign accounts. Domestic nonresident accounts may be opened free ly by au thor ized in termed iar ies in the name of foreigners res id ing temporar i ly in Tun is ia. These accounts may be cred- ited w i thout au thor iza t ion from the CBT w i th the fo l low ing: (1) transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign coun t ry, (2) revenue of any k ind ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 9 11 accruing in Tun is ia to the ho lder of the account (in pa r t icu lar the non t rans fe rab le pa rt of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tun is ia ), (3) l iqu id assets f rom estates opened in Tun i s ia, (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans p rev iou s ly granted in d ina rs w i th f u n ds from the account ho lde r 's in te rnal non res ident accoun t, and (5) transfers from another in te rnal non res ident account opened in the name of the account ho lder. These accounts may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her fam i ly in Tun is ia, (2) p aym ent of costs of manag ing property in Tun is ia, (3) lend ing to residents, and (4) transfers to another in t e rn al non r e s id ent account opened in the name of the account holder. Special d inar accoun ts may be freely opened by fore ign enterprises ho ld ing contracts in Tunisia that have been approved by the CRT. Such enterprises are au thor ized to open for each contract a single special account in d ina r s, in wh ich they may deposit the portion of the contract price payab le in d ina rs to cover the ir local expenses. Such accoun ts may also be credited w i th f u n ds from a fo re ign account in conve r t ib le fore ign cu r rency, the d in ar equ iv a l ent of any t rans fer in conve r t ib le foreign currency from abroad, and in terest accruing on f u n ds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the en terpr ise's contract-related expenses in Tun is ia. Any t rans fer operations from such accounts must be au thor ized by the CRT. Interest is paid at rates comparab le to those app l ied to resident accounts in d ina rs. Capital accounts may be opened freely in the name of a nonresident na tural person of fore ign na t iona l i ty or by a nonres ident j u r i d i c al person. Subject to cer ta in cond i t ion s, cap i tal accounts may be credited, w i thout the prior approval of the CRT, w i th the proceeds of sales on the stock exchange or the con trac tual or advance redemption of t rans fe rab le Tun i s ian securities w i th the sales proceeds of real estate th rough an attor- ney at the Supreme Court or of r igh ts to real estate situated in Tun is ia, and w i th f u n ds from another cap i tal account. Irrespective of the account ho lde r 's coun t ry of residence, cap i tal accounts may be free ly debited for the l i v i ng expenses in Tun i s ia of the account holder and his or her f am i ly up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total w i thd rawa ls from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000. In add i t ion, a capital ac- count ho lder t rave l ing in Tun is ia between November 1 and March 31 may w i t h d r aw f rom the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the t r ip and surrendered to the CRT, an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry, or a subagency, prov ided that to tal w i thd r aw a ls for the l i v i ng expenses of the account holder and h is or her f am i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected w i th the management of Tun is ian securities; for the ma in tenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Ra lances on capital accounts are freely transfer- able between nonresidents of foreign n a t ion a l i ty, w i th the exception of j u r i d i c al per- sons governed by pub l ic law. Subject to certain cond i t ions, they may also be debited to assist the account ho lde r 's parents and offspr ing res id ing in Tun is ia, at a m a x im um rate of D 50 a person a mon th. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Na tu ral and ju r id ical persons of French or I ta l ian na t iona l i ty ho ld ing cap i tal accounts may t ran s fer all f u n ds in th e ir accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonres iden ts, regardless of na t iona l i ty, and may be used for cred i t ing all proceeds accruing to nonres iden ts and awa i t ing use. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approva l, be used in Tun is ia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to o ther nonres ident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, suspense accounts may be debited w i thout the prior au tho r iza t ion of the CRT for purchases of Tun is ian securities, subscr ip t ions to issues of sho r t - te rm deben tures or bonds, po r t fo l io management expenses in respect of cer ta in secu r i t ies, paymen ts to the Tun is ian government or pub l ic i n s t i t u t i o n s, or payment of the ex- penses of manag ing securities deposited in a suspense f i le opened in the name of the account holder. Suspense accounts may also be debited for settlement of l i v i ng expenses incurred in Tun is ia by the account ho lder and his or her f am i ly up to D 100 a person a week, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 912 TUNISIA Convertible into foreign currency provided that the total w i thdrawa ls in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a fam i ly. In add i t ion, a suspense account holder trave l ing in Tu- n is ia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may w i thd raw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the t r ip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total w i th- drawa ls for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder and his or her fam i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the off- spring or parents of the resident account holder. Na tu ral and jur id ical persons of French or I ta l ian na t iona l i ty ho ld ing suspense accounts may transfer all funds in the ir accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Foreign accounts in convertible dinars may be opened freely by all nonresidents re- gardless of na t iona l i ty. These accounts may be credited freely w i th (1) the d inar pro- ceeds from sales of foreign currency on the interbank market. Banknotes must be declared to customs; (2) foreign currency proceeds remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) proceeds from authorized paymen ts by residents in favor of the ac- count holder; (4) proceeds from the conversion of the amount of cashed checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in foreign currency and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder; (5) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (6) in- terest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these ac- counts w i thout authorization from the CBT, granted either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) paymen ts of any kind in Tunisia; and (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for delivery to the account holder, to any other nonresident benef ic iary, or to resi- dents w i th the status of representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers must receive a customs code. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are free of licenses except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, hea l th, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and cu l tu ral heritage and those that are are effected under an import certificate upon presentation of a contract domi- ciled w i th an authorized in termed iary. Goods not liberalized may be given import authorization by the MOT. Imports of raw materials, sem if in ished products, spare parts, and equipment that are paid for from sources outside Tunisia may be effected w i thout foreign trade forma l i t ies by enterprises for the ir own use up to a va lue of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exc lus ive ly engaged in expor t ing goods or ser- vices and companies established in a free trade zone may import free ly, w i thout for- eign trade formalities, any goods required for their production process, subject on ly to customs declaration. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a l ist of wh ich is d rawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical impo rt controls. Goods not covered by the l ibera l iza t ion of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hyg iene, hea l th, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cu l tu r al heritage are inc luded in a list issued by decree. Cars rema in temporar i ly subject to import licenses. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the VAT and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic inve s tment projects are e l ig ib le for f u ll or par t ial exemp t ion from impo rt du t ies. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 913 State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is extended, payment is due w i th in 30 days of the date of sh ipmen t. Nonresident com- panies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Invest- ment Incentives Code, as well as nonresident in terna t ional trading companies and nonresident enterprises constituted in a free-trade zone, are not required to repatriate or surrender the ir export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit up to 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds to the ir professional accounts. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Dom ic i l ia t ion Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Export taxes Exports of goods subject to unrestricted in terna t ional trade must be domiciled w i th in eight days of the date of shipment. Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. Most exports are free, and certain goods may be exported w i th an authorization issued by the MOT. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Transfers for reimbursement of principal on loans in foreign exchange arranged freely by resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and resident enterprises may be freely executed. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The annual l im i ts for tour ist travel are D 500 an adu lt and D 250 a child under 10 years of age. The business allowance for exporters is 10% of export proceeds for the current year, w i th an annual l im it of D 80,000. The annual l im it for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on turnover, and the annual l im it for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, de- pending on turnover declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for promoters of new projects is up to D 5,000 and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Quantitative limits The annual allowance for travel abroad for reasons of health is D 750. Persons accom- pany ing pa t ien ts may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. The l im it of D 750 for travel abroad for reasons of health may be exceeded if the pa- t i en t 's condition requires several trips abroad dur ing the same year. The annual settlement and the mon th ly educational expense allowances for a student are D 1,000 and D 600, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Contractually employed foreign nationals and foreign experts employed by the public sector may t rans fer up to 50% of the ir earnings. For technical assistants, l im i ts on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 914 TUNISIA Indicative limits/bona fide test Gamb l ing /pr ize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad transfers are specified in the ir contracts; otherwise, the restrictions for con trac tua l ly employed foreign na t iona ls w i ll apply. Yes. Yes. A l imony payments to the ex-spouse and ch i ldren in a de f in i t ive judgment are freely transferable. Yes. Yes. n.a. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds The facilities associated w i th professional accounts in foreign exchange apply to pro- ceeds from services to nonresidents. Foreign exchange deposited in professional accounts must be used in accordance w i th the rules governing the operation of accounts of th is type. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Stock may be freely acquired w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad by for- eign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stock w i th voting rights and for acqu is i t ions that result in foreign ownersh ip exceeding 50% of capital shares listed in the stock exchange and for un l is ted shares, the approval of the H igh Investment Commission (HIC) is required. Effective September 3, 1997, au thor iza t ion is not required from the HIC for acquisitions of Tunisian securities en ta i l ing vo t ing rights or shares in companies established in Tunisia (1) between associates or share- holders in the same company who are foreign nationals; (2) transacted by nonresident na tural or jur id ical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired, w i th in the l im it of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management activities of foreign directors in companies established in Tunisia. Nonresidents may freely transfer net real proceeds from the sale of shares of compa- nies established in Tunisia that were purchased w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad for an investment made in accordance w i th the legislation in force. The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resident exporters may transfer D 40,000 to D 200,000 annua l ly to finance equ i ty participation in companies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign currency or convertible d inars, or special export earnings accounts may purchase se- curities abroad by deb i t ing these accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Subscription by nonresident foreign nationals of debt securities issued by state or resident companies is subject to approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 915 Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market in s t rumen ts On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may freely acquire shares of Tun is ian mu tual funds w i th foreign ex- change transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is required if the acquisition raises the foreign ownership to more than 50% of the mu tual fund 's capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may freely transfer net real proceeds from sales of Tunisian mu tual fund shares acquired w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These credits require approval from the CRT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonresident indus t r ial enterprises established in Tunisia. Resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and other resident enterprises may freely contract for- eign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual l im it of D 10 million and D 3 m i l l ion, respectively. Resident f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and other resident enterprises may freely contract for- eign currency f inanc ial loans from nonresidents up to an annual l im it of D 10 m i l l ion and D 3 m i l l ion, respectively; all other loans require approval from the CRT. Yes. Yes. Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee the ir obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guarantees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppliers. The issue and es tab l ishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by residents are not subject to approval. At the request, and w i th the counterguarantee, of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection w i th business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. To transfer capital abroad, residents must obtain approval from the CRT; however, to support the ir export activities, exporters may freely transfer amounts ranging from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 TUNISIA Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment D 20,000 to D 100,000 a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equ i ty participation, and D 10,000 to D 50,000 to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of liai- son or representative offices. On August 12, 1997, these limits were doubled to a range of D 40,000 to D 200,000 and D 20,000 to D 100,000, respectively. Foreigners may invest freely in most economic sectors. However, the participation of foreigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export ac t iv i t ies requires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investments carried out legitimately in Tunisia w i th foreign ex- change transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require approval from the CRT. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) n.a. Yes. Au thor iza t ion is not required to take possession of an inheritance established in Tuni- sia for the benefit of a nonresident. The transfer of proceeds from gifts, endowments, and inheritances is not guaranteed and is subject to approval. Authorization is not required for gifts from nonresidents to residents, and for taking possession of an inheritance established abroad for a resident. Proceeds from g i f ts and inheritances must be declared and repatriated. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Tunisian nationals re tu rn ing de f in i t ive ly to the country must declare and repatriate their assets or proceeds and revenue from their holdings abroad. Resident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions may freely contract foreign currency loans from non- residents up to a l im it of D 10 million. Resident banks may freely open "correspondent" accounts w i th foreign banks of the ir choice. The approval of the CBT is required, except for inves tmen t, commercial, and operat- ing loans granted by resident banks to nonresident indus t r ial enterprises established in Tunisia. Lend ing locally in foreign exchange Resident banks may freely extend credit to f inance import and export operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange Yes. D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Tunisia has no reserve ratio. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 917 Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on cap i tal and money market in s t rumen ts Controls on direct inves tment n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Acquisition of capital stakes in resident and nonresident banks established in Tunisia is subject to approval by the Finance Minister, subject to consultation w i th the na- tional credit council and reporting by the CBT. Approval is also required for any ac- quisition of capital stakes in a bank that may entail controlling interest in that bank, and for any act that may result in the transfer of a significant proportion of a bank's assets potentially changing its financial structure or the focus of its activities. Net open positions of banks operating in the foreign exchange market resulting from both spot and forward transactions are limited to 10% of banks' net assets in each currency, with a global limit of 20% for position in all currencies. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 1997 May 9. The interbank market was opened to forward exchange operations; and the spread between the buy ing and selling exchange rate on the interbank spot market was liberalized. September 3. Au tho r iza t ion is no longer required from the HIC for acquisitions of Tunisian securities en ta i l ing voting rights or shares in companies established in Tuni- sia (1) between associates or shareholders in the same company who are foreign na- tionals; (2) transacted by nonresident na tural or ju r id ical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired, w i th in the limit of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management activities of foreign directors in companies established in Tunisia. August 12. The amount of investment transfers that resident exporters may make freely abroad to support the ir exporting activities was doubled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate for the Turkish lira is market determined. Commercial banks; spe- cial f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions; authorized ins t i tu t ions; post, telephone, and telegraphic offices (FIT); and precious metal intermediary ins t i tu t ions are free to set their ex- change rates according to market conditions. The lowest and highest rates app l ied in these transactions are to be reported da i ly to the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT). On each business day, the CBT announces an indicative exchange rate that is determined as the average of buy ing and selling rates of the 10 banks w i th the largest invo lvement in foreign exchange trading. No. No. Banks and precious metal brokerage ins t i tu t ions may deal w i th forward transactions w i th in the framework of the open position l im i ts determined by the CBT. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and the ir customers in accor- dance w i th international practices. Banks may enter in to swap transactions w i th the CBT w i th terms of quar ter ly periods up to 12 months; however, the CBT has not conducted forward transactions w i th banks since the f irst quarter of 1996. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain commercial transactions w i th the Czech Republic and Poland are made through special accounts denominated in dollars. There are agreements w i th the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, and the S lovak Re- public. Barter agreements and open accounts There are bank ing agreements w i th the Czech Republic and Poland. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT adm in is ter the exchange controls; the undersecretariat of the Treasury authorizes banks to engage in foreign exchange operations, and regulates and supervises banks' open foreign exchange position l im i ts together w i th the CBT. Turkey notified the IMF, on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were im- posed on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for current in terna t ional transac t ions to the government of Iraq. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. 918 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency TURKEY 919 Domestic purchases and sales in Turkey of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by precious metals intermediary ins t i tu t ions can on ly be conducted at the Istanbul Gold Exchange. The purchase and sale of precious metals, stones, and articles may be freely undertaken w i th in the coun t ry. Exports and imports of precious metals, stones, and articles may be freely effected. Unprocessed gold may be imported by the CBT and by precious metals in termed iary ins t i tu t ions that are members of the Precious Metals Exchange w i thout being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the gold must be surrendered to the Is tanbul Gold Exchange w i t h in three days. Banks may open gold deposit accounts in the name of na tu ral and ju r id ical entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders may freely use balances on their accounts. W i th in the framework of the bank ing regulations, banks may extend gold credits to na tu ral and ju r id ical persons invo lved in the jewe l ry bus iness, upon the phys ical de- livery of the gold purchased by their ins t i tu t ions and against the gold held in the gold deposit accounts. The buy ing and selling prices of gold are freely determined by banks. Since September 3, 1997, the precious metals intermediary ins t i tu t ions that are members of the Precious Metals Exchange can obtain gold from abroad for the ir own account and/or for the account of their customers who are involved in the jewe l ry business. However, the raw gold credit should be transferred to the Istanbul Gold Exchange w i t h in three days, and the buy ing and selling operations should take place in the Is tanbul Gold Exchange. Passengers may br ing in to and take out of the country ornamental articles made from precious metals and stones of which the va lue does not exceed $15,000. The tak ing out of ornamental articles exceeding this value is dependent on their declaration upon arr ival or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may take abroad freely up to the equivalent of $5,000. Travelers may take freely up to $5,000 or its equivalent out of the country. To take out more than th is amount, nonresidents must declare banknotes upon arrival, and resi- dents must present a document con f i rm ing that the foreign banknotes were purchased for inv is ib le transactions. Eligibility to bold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Jur id ical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 920 TURKEY Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses w i th quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of goods prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition, is allowed only w i th a special per- mit. Old, used, reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the undersecretariat of the Trea- sury. But certain used goods that are not older than f ive years may be imported freely. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmonization of the import policy of Turkey with that of the EU. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated w i th in 180 days of the date of sh ipmen t. Exporters are allowed to use those proceeds for payments on imports and inv i s ib le transactions. Receipts must be surrendered w i th in 180 days of the date of repatriation. If exchange receipts are surrendered w i th in 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30% of pro- ceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts w i th commercial banks, maintain abroad, or dispose of freely. Exporters may retain export proceeds abroad up to $50,000. Banks; special financial institutions; and the post, telephone, and tele- graphic offices are required to sell to the foreign currency notes market and the CBT 4% and 10%, respectively, of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports, inv is ib le transactions, and gold accounts w i th in a period agreed upon w i th the CBT. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports are generally free of restrictions, but for the exportation of a few goods, per- mission from authorized ins t i tu t ions is required in advance. Exportation of certain goods requires registration for purposes of in fo rma t ion on the impo r t ing coun t ry, price, quan t i ty, and the method of paymen t. W i th quotas A few products are subject to quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 921 Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export taxes on nu ts, olive oil, and unprocessed leather are collected through the ex- change system. The export tax on rye was lifted on Ju ly 30, 1997. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled w i th in 30 days. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Sale or issue of these instruments by nonresidents is subject to the permission of the Capital Market Board. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may freely sell all securities (including investments, partnerships, and mu tual funds abroad) and other capital ins trumen ts through the banks and intermedi- ary institutions authorized according to the capital legislation. The transfer of the in- come from such securities and instruments, as well as the proceeds from their sale, may be effected freely through banks and special f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. Purchases and sales by residents of the securities traded in foreign financial markets may be freely effected, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, special f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, and intermediary ins t i tu t ions authorized according to the capital market legislation and that the transfer of their purchase value abroad is made through banks and special f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. Sale or issue of these ins trumen ts by nonresidents is subject to the permission of the Capital Market Board. On money market ins trumen ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. No. Residents may obtain credits freely from abroad provided that they channel such cred- its through the banks or special financial institutions. However, the maturity of pre- f inanc ing credits is one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 922 TURKEY Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of over one year must be registered in the debt log ma in ta ined by the undersecretariat of the Treasury. Residents may export freely capital in cash up to $5 m i l l ion or its equ iva lent in other foreign currencies through banks or special f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and capital in k ind w i th in the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation for the purpose of inves tmen t, incorporating companies for commercial purposes, par t ic ipa t ing in an enterprise, or opening branches abroad. The permission to export capital in cash and/or in kind exceeding $5 m i l l ion is given by the m in is t ry to wh ich the undersecre- tariat of the Treasury is attached. Permission from the undersecretariat of the Treasury w i th in the framework of the En- couragement of Foreign Capital Law is required. In es tab l ish ing pa r tne rsh ip or jo in t- ven ture companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must supp ly at least $50,000 of the capital. Proceeds may be transferred abroad but must be reported to the CBT. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Turkey for tourism, petroleum, and bank ing ac t iv i t ies if approved by the Council of M in is ters. The acqu is i t ion of real estate in villages of Turkey by nonresidents is prohibited. If nonresidents acquire real estate via inheritance in villages of Turkey, it must be liquidated. For nonresidents to acquire real estate exceeding 30 hectares in independent rural areas not belonging to a village, a decision of the Council of Ministers is required. Nonresidents cannot acquire real estate in forbidden m i l i ta ry and security areas. The restriction applies only to commodity credits of more than two years for the ex- port of nondurable goods and of more than f ive years for the export of other goods. To residents from nonresidents This applies only to pref inanc ing credits w i th a m a tu r i ty of more than one year, G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) n.a. n.a. n.a. Credits obtained by banks from abroad are subject to a 4% tax, wh ich is earmarked for the Resource U t i l iza t ion Support Fund (RUSF). Resident banks and special financial institutions can extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange and in Turkish liras up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and their foreign exchange deposit accounts, provided that the amount of the credits is w i th in the limits determined in the Banking Law. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requ irement ratios are set at 8% for deposits in local currency and at 11 % for foreign currency deposits. While d ifferent ratios are applied to domestic and foreign currency deposits, there is no difference between the ratios applied to the deposit ac- counts of nonresidents and residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Liquid asset requirements Inv e s tm ent regu la t ions Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents TURKEY 923 Domestic deposits and other domestic l iab i l i t ies are subject to a 6% l iqu id i ty ratio. Foreign deposits and other foreign l iab i l i t ies are subject to a 3% l iqu id i ty ratio. The l iqu id assets must consist of government bonds, T-bills, and borrowing instruments issued by the Co l lec t ive Hous ing Fund and P r iva t iza t ion Adm in i s t ra t ion. Other do- mestic l iab i l i t ies and the amoun ts over and above the short or long position are subject to an 8% l i q u i d i ty ratio and other foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies are subject to an 11% l i q u i d i ty ratio. The amount pe r ta in ing to these ratios is held in cash. There is no d i f- ference between the ratios applied to the deposit accounts of nonresidents and residents. The open ing of branches or representative offices abroad by banks founded in Turkey is subject to the permission of the undersecretariat of Treasury. Banks that fa il to meet the standard ratios according to the Banks Act cannot acquire new shares in par tnersh ips. Subject to pr ior permission of the undersecretariat of Treasury are the acqu is i t ion of shares by one person (either resident or nonresident) corresponding to or exceeding 5% of the cap i tal of the bank; acqu is i t ion of shares as a result of wh ich capital shares held by one person exceed 5%, 20%, 33%, or 50% of the capital of the bank; and any transfer of shares as a result of wh ich capital shares held by one person fall below these l im i t s. Open fore ign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 50% of the capital base. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on po r t fo l io inves ted abroad n.a. L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts app ly only for investment trusts that invest the max imum of 25% of the ir capi- tal and reserve f u n ds on securities in the ir portfolios. Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. Changes During 1997 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 3. The precious metals in termed iary in s t i tu t ions that are members of the Precious Metals Exchange can obtain gold from abroad for their own account and/or for the account of their customers who are invo lved in the jewe lry business. Exports and export proceeds July 30. The export tax on rye was l if ted. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations March 11. The RUSF fee was amended. A rate of 4% was set for loans obtained by banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions from abroad, and a 6% fee was set for loans obtained by other residents from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkmenistan is the Turkmen manat. There are two exchange rates: (1) the official (noncash) rate determined at a weekly auction in which commercial banks participate, and (2) the commercial bank cash rate determined by the banks w i th in guidelines given by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CRT) and by parallel market rates. Prior to the auction, the CBT issues an indicative rate and adjusts the auction rate, tak ing the bids into account. Access to the market is restricted through the screening of bids by the Foreign Exchange Committee and the CBT. The CBT also determines the commercial bank exchange rate by providing an indicative rate to the banks. In 1997, the spread between the more appreciated off ic ial rate and the commercial bank rate was 25% on average. Since May 1997, the off ic ial rate has been stable at manat 4,165 per dollar. A 50% exchange tax on cash receipts from gas exports was introduced in December 1997. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th Russ ia and a few other countries of the FSU are made th rough a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich Turkmen i- stan has bilateral payment arrangements are effected in accordance w i th the proce- dures set for th in these agreements. Barter transactions, other than gas exports, must take place through the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are made in convertible currencies. Yes. The bilateral agreements w i th Ma lays ia and the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran are inoperative. n.a. Trilateral agreements are maintained w i th Armen ia and the Is lam ic Republic of I ran, and w i th Uk ra ine and the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran. Barter agreements and open accounts There are barter trade agreements, p r ima r i ly for gas exports, and there is an agreement w i th Kazakhs tan for the export of electricity. Administration of control Exchange control au tho r i t ies The CBT, along w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy and F inance (MEF), the Foreign Ex- change Committee, and the Tax Au tho r i ty, is empowered to issue exchange control 924 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 925 regulations depending on the type of operation involved. The use of official foreign exchange reserves is controlled to a large extent by the President of Turkmenistan. International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade No. No. Yes. Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade'in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Local and foreign banknotes may be freely exported and imported, provided funds are declared on arrival and departure. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Residents may hold foreign exchange accounts w i th local commercial banks. These accounts may be opened if the holder possesses a certificate of registration is- sued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER); the authorized bank determines the amount and currency of denomination of interest payable on these accounts. All external paymen ts made from balances of these accounts must be ap- proved by the CRT; however, cash w i thd rawa ls from the accounts in foreign currency may be made w i thout the approval of the CRT. Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad, w i th permission from the CRT for the dura t ion of the ir residence abroad. Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. n .a. n .a. Imports of goods on a small negative l ist (arms, narcotics, antiques) are proh ib i ted. Approval of the president or the Cabinet of M in is te rs (CM) is required to import these goods. Excise taxes are levied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewe l ry, and cars. Goods in transit are exempt. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 TURKMENISTAN Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system The private sector and jo in t -ven tu re enterprises are exempt f rom surrender require- ments. Public enterprises in the cotton sector are also exempt from surrender require- ments. Un t il April 1, 1997, pub l ic enterprises in the gas sector were subject to a 70% surrender requ irement at the o f f ic ial exchange rate, of wh i ch 40% was surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund (FERF) and 30% to the CBT. Other pub l ic enter- prises had a 50% surrender requirement, of wh ich 30% went to the FERF and 20% to the CBT. On Ap r il 1, 1997, these surrender requ iremen ts were un i f ied at 50%, all of wh ich is to be surrendered to the CBT. All exports, except gas, have to be channe led th rough the Stock Commod i ty Exchange. Yes. There is a 50% foreign exchange tax on gas. Also, 0.01% of the va lue of licensed products paid for convertible currencies is collected as a fee. The fee on exports to the Baltic countries, Russ ia, and other countries of the FSU is 0.1 % of the rub le va lue of the licensed product. The customs depar tment also charges an adm in is tra t ion fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All paymen ts require prior approval of the exchange control authorities. P ro f i t /d iv idends Quantitative limits Af ter the payment of taxes, prof i ts may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in national or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amor t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Residents must possess va l id passports to purchase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The l im it is $1,000 a transac t ion, w i thout a l im it on the number of transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds must be sold to commercial banks, except for the retained portion in the case of enterprises. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Capital Transactions Both inwa rd and ou tward capital transfers are subject to CBT approva l. The nonresidents' share in stocks of a resident company is l im i ted to 49%. Non res i- dents may purchase on ly registered shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 927 Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts App roval of the CM is required. Annu al quotas app ly. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quo ta and l icens ing by the CM. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. Bonds or other debt securities n .a. On money market ins trumen ts All transactions in money market ins t rumen ts are subject to quota and licensing by the CM. On collective inves tment securities No regulations exist on these securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment There are no transactions in derivatives in Turkmenistan. A CRT license or its approval is required for residents. Nonresidents need CBT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inves tmen ts by ju r id i c al persons are permitted, in pr inc ip le, in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain an au thor iza t ion from the MFER; if the amount exceeds $500,000, the approval of the CM is required. Foreign participation in joint-stock companies is limited to 49%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors have the r ight to recover inves tmen ts w i th in six mon ths of l iqu ida t ion. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. n.a. n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A CBT license is required. Provided the license is granted, no controls apply to indi- v idual transactions. Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending loca l ly in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Provisions specific to institutional investors A CBT and/or an MEF license is required, depending on the type of ins t i tu t ional investors. L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on por tfo l io invested abroad n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 928 TURKMENISTAN L im i ts (min .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws n.a. n.a. Ins t i tu t ional investors are required to meet m i n im um capital requirements. Responsi- b i l i ty rests w i th the CM, the CBT, and/of the MEF, depending on the type of investors. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement December 30. A 50% exchange tax on cash receipts from gas exports was introduced. Exports and export proceeds April 1. The surrender requirements on state sector export earnings were un i f ied at 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1994. Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the Uganda shilling is determined in the interbank foreign ex- change market. Certain transactions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. No. No. Authorized banks may deal with customers in the forward exchange market in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange deal- ers may impose a service charge of up to 1%. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, including those for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other cur- rency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Uganda ma in ta ins clearing arrangements w i th Burund i, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. Trade and payment agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Following the East African Cooperation Agreement, the Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania shillings are now freely convertible in the three countries. Excess holdings of Kenya and/or Tanzania shillings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in U.S. dollars. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in U.S. dollars w i th COMESA member countries through the COMESA clearinghouse. Residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. The BOU adm in is ters exchange controls on behalf of the Minister of Finance (MOF) but has delegated a broad range of responsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Trade (MCT), wh ich has powers to prohibit imports and exports. International security restrictions No. 929 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 930 Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Controls on external trade UGANDA Yes. Yes. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes. On ly monetary au thor i t ies and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Mines. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Na tural persons are eligible, Ju r id ical persons n.a. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident exporters of goods who earn commissions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange may operate foreign exchange accounts w i th commercial banks in Uganda. Payments made from these accounts are subject to the same regula- tions as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureaus. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Na tu ral persons are eligible, Ju r id ical persons n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts held by diplomats may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents of Uganda and with transfers from other external accounts or any other external source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Domestic currency accounts Conver t ib le in to foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers should subm it a form to ob ta in foreign exchange. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports require licenses. Foreign exchange sales to various ministries and de- partments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 931 Board. Importers are provided w i th a renewable certificate, wh ich is valid for six mon ths and wh ich permits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The certificate does not prescribe the impor ta t ion of specific goods. There is a time-specific ban on the impor ta t ion of certain commodities. The importation of pornographic materials, beer, and soft drinks is prohibited. Imports of f i rea rms and ammun i t ion require special permission. Customs duties are applied at one of four rates of up to 30%. Duties for intermediate goods, raw materials, and machinery range up to 8%. Nega t ive l ist Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected th rough the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i th quo tas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. All exports require certificates from the MCT, which are valid for six months and are renewable; they may be restricted to ensure domestic supp ly. Exports of coffee are subject to a quota under the International Coffee Organization. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requ iremen ts Proceeds may be sold in the foreign exchange interbank market. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions All capital account transactions were liberalized on Ju ly 1, 1997. No. No. On Ju ly 1, 1997, all restrictions on inwa rd and outward capital investment flows were e l im ina ted. Add i t iona l ly, a new Foreign Exchange Statute that set out the new regu- lations for inves tment promotion was submitted to Parliament, g iv ing residents and nonresidents equal treatment. Investments are permitted w i th or w i thout government participation. To secure a guar- antee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the inves tment in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 932 UGANDA terms of the Investment Code (1991). In normal circumstances, approval is given freely. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents With the exception of agricultural land, nonresidents can purchase local real estate. Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to lend locally up to 80% of their total foreign liabilities in for- eign currency. Reserve requirements Banks must hold 20% of foreign liabilities in reserve. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to have an open position equivalent to 20% of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Capital transactions July 1. All capital account transactions were liberalized. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1996. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ukra ine is the Ukra in ian hry vnia. There are two exchange rates: the official and the international rates. The National Bank of Ukra ine (NBU) conducts da i ly foreign exchange auctions (the B irzha auctions), in wh ich the off ic ial exchange rate of the h ryvn ia is determined. The off ic ial exchange rate applies to transactions of the NBU w i th the government. The interbank rate may not d i f fer by more than 0.3% from the official rate. On March 25, 1997, the fluctuation band for the h ryvn ia was formalized at HRV 1.7-1.9 per $1 through the end of 1997, and for 1998 the exchange rate band was set at HRV 1.8- 2.25 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all countries are settled in convertible currencies. Non- barter trade w i th the Ba l t ic countries, Russ ia, and the other countries of the FSU is now settled ma in ly in convertible currencies, especially the dollar. Settlement may also be in na t ional currencies. There are arrangements w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. Regional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter continues to be a major form of trade for Ukra in ian companies in their transac- tions w i th the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance w i th UN sanctions The NBU adm in is ters exchange controls. Restrictions on paymen ts and the provision of f inanc ial services to Iraq are ma in ta ined. Payment arrears Pr iva te n .a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Res iden ts are required to ob ta in a license from the M in i s t ry of Finance to deal in pre- cious stones and metals. 933 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 934 UKRAINE Controls on external trade Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabinet of M in is ters of Ukraine. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may export up to the equ iva lent of ten t imes the m i n im um wage. The l im it for nonresidents is f ive times the m in imum wage. Resident na tural persons may export $1,000 in cash or in trave ler's checks w i thout permission, and $5,000 in cash and $4,000 in trave ler's checks w i th perm iss ion from an authorized bank. The total l im it is set at $10,000 a person a tr ip. Nonresident natu- ral persons may export $1,000 in cash and $1,000 in t rave le r 's checks w i t h o ut per- mission, and $1,000 in cash and $5,000 in t rave le r 's checks w i th perm iss ion, for a total l im it of $7,000. The exportation of currency by residents and nonres iden ts in excess of established norms is granted in bona fide cases. Resident and nonresident natural persons are permitted to import domestic currency up to the amounts declared in a customs declaration upon exit from Ukra ine. Ju r id ical persons must obtain a license from the NBU to import domestic currency. Resident and nonresident na tu ral persons are permitted to import up to $50,000 in cash; for amoun ts in excess of th is l im i t, permission from the NBU is required. Resi- dents are required to declare sources for imports of currency exceeding $10,000, wh i le nonresidents are required to explain the purpose for such imports. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Certain conditions apply to these accounts. A license from the NBU is required to open these accounts, except when they are opened du r ing a temporary stay abroad. These accounts are permitted in cases where an obligation to a nonresident exists. Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Residents of Kazakhs tan, Russ ia, and Uzbekistan must subm it a certified copy of the NBU approval to open a settlement account in foreign currency to the bank where the account is to be opened. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign com- pany, f i rm, or international organization established w i thout the status of a legal en- t i ty, through wh ich a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her en trepreneur ial activities in Ukra ine. P accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds of transactions from any economic ac t iv i ty, inc lud ing paymen ts for current in te rna t ional transac t ions. "N" accounts may be opened by a representative office of a nonresident legal en t i ty, an ins t i tu t ion, or a person who represents its interests in Uk ra ine and does not engage in entrepreneurial ac t iv i t ies w i t h in the territory of Uk ra ine. The holders of N accounts are regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as residents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited w i th funds by se l l ing foreign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlement associated solely w i th the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Conver t ib le in to foreign currency UKRAINE 935 maintenance of the representative office, or w i th funds received by embassies and consulates for p rov id ing consular services. All N account holders may purchase for- eign exchange on the interbank currency market to transfer funds abroad, inc lud ing interest accrued on the balance in the account. Prior approval is required. P account holders may convert and (1) t rans fer to a nonresident legal person (wh ich it represents) the proceeds from transactions effected in Ukraine for the sale of goods and services, interest accrued on deposits and balances in a type P account, and the balance in such an account when ceasing activities in Ukra ine; and (2) credit to the ir own account in foreign currency resources designated for labor compensation of non- resident employees and for business trip and representative office expenses abroad. N account holders, other than foreign d ip loma t ic, consular, commercial, and other off ic ial missions and the ir offices, may not purchase foreign exchange on the inter- bank market to transfer funds abroad from their N accounts. Nonresident na tural per- sons may convert and transfer abroad funds from settlement accounts in h ryvn ias. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirement Advance payments for imports were repealed on April 14, 1997. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import contracts are required for banks to bid in foreign exchange auctions. To con- vert na t ional currency in to foreign currency, residents sha ll provide the bank w i th copies of import contracts. Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. n.a. Yes. Non tar iff measures are l im i ted to those for national safety and environmental reasons. Yes. n.a. There are three customs du ty rates w i th a trade-weighted average rate of about 5% ( inc lud ing energy imports). The f irst category (preferred du ty rate) applies to goods from countries w i th wh ich Ukra ine has a free-trade agreement, imports from develop- ing countries, and imports from countries that have a preferential agreement w i th Ukraine. The second category (concessional duty rate) applies to imports from coun- tries that have entered into MFN agreements w i th Ukra ine. The th i rd category applies to imports from other sources. A VAT of 20% is levied on most imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters must repatriate all foreign exchange proceeds through domestic commercial banks w i th in 90 days of shipment. Through Ju ly 23, 1997, 50% of proceeds had to be surrendered, all of wh ich were to be sold at the auctions w i th in f ive days of repatriation. Exports by foreign f i rms were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 936 UKRAINE exempted from the surrender requirement. Surrender requirements were abolished on Ju ly 24, 1997. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses W i thout quotas With quotas n.a. n.a. n.a. Goods subject to vo lun tary export restraints or other international agreements and those falling under the "special export regime"—coal, precious metal scrap, and alco- holic spirits —are also subject to export quotas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, freely provided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, it is required that sales for the export market be undertaken through the agricultural commodity exchange. Access to the commodity exchange is restricted to those farmers who have fu l f i l led the ir obligations under the prepaid portion of the state contract. Export contract preregistration is limited to goods subject to vo lun ta ry export restraints or antidumping actions. The "special export" regime has been liberal- ized; registration of exports is automatic and for statistical purposes only. Export taxes Taxes are applied to exports of animals and skins. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments n.a. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The foreign currency l im it for tourists is $10,000, comprising $5,000 in cash and $5,000 in traveler's checks a trip; for business travel, the limit is $10,000 (cash and/or traveler's checks). In addition, credit cards for international payment systems issued by Uk ra in ian banks may be used abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test S tudy abroad costs Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Quantitative limits The l im it is $200 for membersh ip dues. Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Yes. n.a. n.a. Credit card use abroad Residents may use abroad credit cards issued by Ukra in ian banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 937 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds, except those of a few organizations w i th international operations, such as the national airlines, are subject to repatriation requirements. Through July 23, 1997, intermediary f i rms in the foreign trade sector were required to surrender 50% of their profits in foreign exchange, rather than 50% of foreign ex- change revenues. Surrender requirements were abolished on Ju ly 24, 1997. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Yes. n.a. Yes. On collective investment securities An ind iv idual NBU license is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required if the repayment deadline exceeds 90 days. To residents from nonresidents External loans w i th maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the NBU. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits require registration with the NBU. To residents from nonresidents These credits must be licensed by or registered w i th the NBU. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou twa rd direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inve s tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Investments require an ind iv idual NBU license. Foreign inves tmen ts in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are required in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in interme- diation activities require a license from the M in is t ry of Finance, and inves tmen ts in the bank ing sector require a license from the NBU. Foreign inves tment in Ukra ine must be made in convertible currency or in kind. The Russian ruble is not regarded as a convertible currency for th is purpose. The t rans fer of proceeds, af ter payment of taxes due, is guaranteed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 938 UKRAINE Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions must be in accordance w i th Uk ra in ian legislation. Sale locally by nonresidents Transactions must be in accordance w i th Uk ra in ian leg is la t ion. Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents Na tu ral persons are not allowed to receive loans in foreign currency. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies There are no restrictions w i th regard to na tu ral persons. Settlements of debts abroad by imm igran ts n.a. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Transfers by nonresident na tu ral persons are not restricted after settlement of tax l iab i l i t ies. Transfers by nonresident na tural persons are unrestricted. Borrowing abroad Borrow ing exceeding one year requires registration w i th the NBU. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Credit controls D i f fe ren t ial trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonres iden ts Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonres iden ts and on por tfo l io inves ted abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. An NBU license is required. Yes. n.a. NBU approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 939 L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested loca l ly NBU approval is required. The NBU does not impose any l im i ts on these inves tmen ts. Changes During 1997 Exchange arrangement Nonresident accounts March 25. The f lu c tu a t ion band for the h r y v n ia was forma l ized at HRV 1.7-1.9 per $1 th rough the end of 1997, and, for 1998, the exchange rate band was set at HRV 1.8-2.25 per $1. April 14. Advance impo rt deposits were repealed by Jo int Resolution No. 335 of the Cabinet of M in is te rs and the NBU. Exports and export proceeds July 24. Surrender requ iremen ts were abolished. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Con tro ls on cred it operations July 24. Surrender requ iremen ts were abolished. May 7. Procedures for the registration of credits from nonres iden ts replaced l icens ing of such credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. d irham. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Limited flexibility in respect to a single currency Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the d irham has a fixed re la t ionsh ip w i th the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1 w i th in margins of ±7.25%. The dirham has maintained a stable re la t ionsh ip w i th the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, since November 1980. In November 1997, the spread between the buy ing and selling rates was narrowed. No. No. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) maintains a swap fac i l i ty, wh ich the commercial banks may use to purchase d irhams spot and sell d irhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, max imum l im i ts of $20 m i l l ion ou ts tand ing for one-month and three-mon th swaps and $10 m i l l ion out- standing for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 million a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. This fac i l i ty is de- signed to provide temporary d i rham l iqu id i ty to commercial banks. Swap facilities are not ava i lab le to banks h av ing a short position in d i rhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly There are no prescr ip t ion requirements, but settlements w i th Israel are p roh ib i ted. No. No. No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. 940 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 941 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened by banks and by trade, f inanc ia l, and indu s t r i al com- panies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local i n s t i t u t i o ns in foreign countries; and by embassies and d ip loma t ic agencies. These accounts may be opened by U .A .E. citizens working abroad and by foreigners working in the Un i ted Arab Emirates who have no residency. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Only licensed parties can enter the import trade. Importers can import only the com- modities specified in their licenses. Nega t ive l i st Other non ta r i ff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a few commodities are proh ib i ted for hea l th, secur i ty, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are impor ts of products manufac tured by foreign companies b lack l is ted by the A rab League. Most imports are subject to a customs du ty of 4% of the c .i .f. va lue. Imports of alco- hol and tobacco are subject to h igher rates. Imports or ig ina t ing from members of the GCC are exempt from du t ies. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On cap i tal market secur i t ies Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents At least 70% of the shares of U .A .E. corporations must be held by U .A .E. na t iona ls or organizations. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonres iden ts Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inv e s tm ent Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase loca l ly by nonres iden ts Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f in an c i al or commerc ial credits) Yes. Yes. No. No. At least 51 % of the equ i ty of companies, other th an branches of foreign companies, must be held by na t iona ls of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member coun tr ies of the GCC are perm i t ted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equ i ty of companies in the indus tr ia l, agr icu l tura l, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consul- tancy areas; and (2) up to 100% of the equ i ty of companies in the hotel indu s t ry. Fur- thermore, na t iona ls of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade ac t iv i t ies, except in the form of companies, in wh ich case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. No. Yes. No. Commercial banks operating in the Un i ted Arab Emirates are prohibited f rom engag- ing in n o n b a n k i ng ope ra t ions. Banks operating in the Un i ted A rab Emirates are required to ma in ta in special deposits w i th the UAECB equal to 30% of the ir placements w i t h, or lend ing to, nonres ident banks in d i rhams w i th a rema in ing l ife of one year or less. The prof i ts of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local au tho r i t ies at an annual rate of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 943 Inves tment regu la t ions Abroad by banks Banks are not allowed to place more than 7% of the ir capital base in one foreign ins t i- tu t ion. Total placements shou ld not exceed 800% of the ir capital base. Placements w i th foreign governmen ts and government guaranteed in s t i tu t ions are exempt from such l im i ts. In banks by nonresidents Nonresidents cannot acquire more than 20% of the share capital of any na t ional bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exchange arrangement November 25. The spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates for fore ign exchange was narrowed. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Un i tary Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and br i tann ias are legal tender, but do not circulate. The U .K. authorities do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions. The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. (The United Kingdom suspended intervention obli- gations w i th respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992.) No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and w i th residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. The United K ingdom no t if ied the IMF on September 22, 1994, tha t, in compliance w i th UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 883 and 841 (1993), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions in respect of Libya and Ha i t i. Sanctions against the latter were l if ted in October 1994. Restrictions against Iraq, as reported to the IMF on August 13, 1990, continue to be enforced. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) and the Serbian-held areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina were lifted in accordance w i th UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074 w i th immed ia te effect on the adoption of the resolution by the UN Security Council on October 1, 1996. In the case of the former, paragraph 5 of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 (1995) concerning, inter alia, funds frozen pu r suant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 757 (1992) and 820 (1993) remains in force. In accordance w i th UN sanctions Payment arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Gold bu l l ion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license 944 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 945 granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, hav ing been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of National Heritage. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas No. No. No. Yes. Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an open general import license. The rema in ing restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are maintained under various EU bilateral agreements w i th third countries that are not members of the MFA, certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements, autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakhs tan, EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and EU-wide quotas on four catego- ries of goods or ig ina t ing in Ch ina. A double-checking system is in operation w i th ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 946 UNITED KINGDOM Other nontariff measures Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, and the Slovak Republic on certain steel products. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese governmen t. A few articles may be imported under open ind iv idual licenses (i.e., w i thout l im it as to quan t i ty or va lue). Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, pou l try meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m i n im um import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agr icu l tura l, ho r t icu l tu ra l, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of na t ional security, an imal welfare, national heritage, and in accordance w i th international agreements. W i thout quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inwa rd direct inves tment Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. Yes. The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry may prohibit a proposed transfer of control of an important U .K. manufac tur ing undertaking to a nonresident where the transfer is considered contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom or a substantial part of it. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compul- sorily acquired against compensation. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to parliamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open fore ign exchange position l im i ts UNITED KINGDOM 947 No. No. Net spot l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency re- sources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank 's eligible l iab i l i t ies that are subject to a 0.35% non-interest-bearing deposit requirement w i th the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed w i th the bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Currency The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. n.a. No. The Department of the Treasury (DOT) administers economic sanction programs in- vo lv ing direct or indirect f inanc ial or commercial transactions w i th Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Libya, foreign terrorists who d is rupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, as specified under the (1) Cuban Assets Control Regulations, (2) the Iraqi Sanctions Regu la t ions, (3) the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, (4) the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, (5) the Middle East Terrorism Regulations, (6) the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations, and (7) the Narcotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations, respectively. It also has adminis- trative responsibility for the blocked accounts of the above countries and groups of persons. Sanctions against the Bosnian Serbs and the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended in 1996, a l though funds blocked prior to May 10, 1996, and December 27, 1995, remain blocked un t il released in accordance w i th applicable law and without prejudice to the claims of the successor states to the former Federal Repub l ic of Yugos lav ia. The DOT also proh ib i ts new inve s tment in Myanmar; restricts certain offshore transactions invo lv ing strategic merchandise to certain countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations; and p roh ib i ts dona t ive transfers to the United States, or those that pose a risk of fu r th e r ing terrorist acts in the United States by the governments of Syria and Sudan, under the Terrorist List Gov- ernment Sanctions Regulations. The United States no t if ied the IMF on December 3, 1997 that the pres ident had issued Executive Order 13067 impos ing certain restrictions on the mak ing of paymen ts and transfers for current in te rna t ional transactions, and had blocked property and property interest of the government of Sudan. 948 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 949 Payment arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No controls are imposed except for the countries and groups of persons to wh ich in- ternational security restrictions app ly. Ind iv idua ls leaving or entering the United States w i th more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or negotiable bearer securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nega t ive l i st Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts blocked are those of Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, Middle East terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, Terrorism List governments, Sudan, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia; resid- ual accounts are blocked under sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugos lav ia (Serbia/Montenegro) and the Bosnian Serbs. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The impo r ta t ion of goods and services that originate in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of I ran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, and Sudan are prohib- ited unless specifically authorized by the DOT. Open general licenses n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 950 UNITED STATES Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Bilateral import quota agreements on textiles and clothing exist w i th numerous coun- tries. These are to be phased out over 10 years beg inn ing in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and tex t i le products into the WTO regime over a 10-year trans i t ion period, and the gradual phas- ing out of quan t i ta t ive restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the Un i ted States. "Integrated products" have been removed from the scope of the ATC's special safe- guard mechan ism, and any applicable quotas have been e l im ina ted. In tegra t ion is tak- ing place in four stages: in 1995, 16% of the vo lume of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beg inn ing of year four and year seven, an add i t ional 17% and 18%, respectively, w i ll be integrated; and after year ten, all rema in ing products w i ll be inte- grated. W i th regard to the phas ing out of quotas, the vast ma jo r i ty of quotas a f fec t ing imports to the United States w i ll be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" l ibera l i- zation du r ing each year of the trans i t ion period. Import tariffs are generally low, w i th higher-than-average rates for imports of bever- ages and tobacco, tex t i les and c lo th ing, and lea ther and footwear. As a resu lt of the U ruguay Round, all tar iff lines are bound. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of goods and services to the countries on the negative list are prohibited un- less specifically authorized by the DOT, or, in the cases of Cuba and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, by the Department of Commerce (DOC). Ammun i t ion may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The DOC administers controls d irec t ly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as we ll as on ins t rumen ts and re- lated technical data, to all countries except other members of NATO, Aus t ra l ia, Japan, and New Zealand. The DOC administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on reexports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system n.a. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents UNITED STATES Capital Transactions 951 Laws on inward direct inves tment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresi- dents. The restriction applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be restricted by laws on inwa rd direct investment and on establishment in the nuclear energy, mar i t ime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mu tual funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to (1) nonresident issuers that are defined as inves tment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues ex- emption by nonresident issuers. Bonds or other debt securities n.a. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective inves tment securities Foreign mu tual funds are restricted. The restriction applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations apply as for shares and other securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Johnson Act prohibits, w i th certain exceptions, persons w i th in the Un i ted States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The Act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. Foreign acquisitions of control that threaten to impa ir national security may be sus- pended or prohibited. Investments invo lv ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or invo lv ing Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Libya, foreign terrorists who d isrupt the M idd le East peace process, Terrorism List governments, foreign terrorist organizations, Sudan, signifi- cant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, and certain foreign terrorist govern- ments. The Omn ibus Trade Act (1988) contained a provision, the Exon-Florio Amendment, authorizing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acqu is i t ions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor m ight take action that wou ld threaten to impa ir na t ional security and if ex is t ing laws, other than the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Exon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgmen t, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of ag r icu l tu ral land by foreign na t iona ls or by corporations, in wh ich for- eign owners have an interest of at least 10% or subs tan t ial control, must be reported to the Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose various re- strictions on foreign na t iona ls' purchases of land w i t h in the ir borders. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 952 UNITED STATES Controls on personal capital movements No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Inves tment regulations Banks are subject to prudential oversight in these areas. Open foreign exchange position limits The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to pruden- tial oversight. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1997 May 20. New investments in Myanmar were prohibited. October 8. Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations were introduced. November 5. Sudanese government property was blocked, and transactions w i th Sudan were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Exchange tax The exchange rate for the Uruguayan peso is determined in the exchange market, where the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) intervenes to ensure that the rate remains w i th in a 7% band. The exchange rate band is depreciated daily at a predetermined monthly rate, and the CBU announces its intervention buying and selling rates daily. This rate was 1.4% effective January 1997, decreasing to 1.2% in May, 1% in August, and 0.8% in November 1997. In 1998, the mon th ly depreciation w i ll fu r ther decline, as in f la t ion also declines. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, w i th the exception of those by the CBU and official banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements of balances under the mu l t i la teral clearing system are made in dollars. There is an arrangement w i th the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, effective through Ju ly 31, 1998. Bilateral payments w i th Cuba are inoperative. Payments between U ruguay and the countries w i th wh ich Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit arrangements (i.e., Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela) may be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the central banks w i th in the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, finance houses, ex- change houses, and the Bank of the Repub l ic. Exchange houses must be authorized by the CBU. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell f inanc ial gold w i th a fineness of not less than 0.9. 953 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 954 URUGUAY Controls on external trade Residents may freely import and export gold w i th a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for indus tr ial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to bold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domes t ica l ly Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to bold accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs during that period. Under MERCOSUR, a CET exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and U ruguay. There are 11 tax rates. In i t ia l ly, the max imum rate was 20%. However, a surcharge, imposed in 1997 and whose removal is planned in 2001, raised th is max imum to 23%. U ruguay was granted exemption to the surcharge for capital and certain intermediate goods. Regionally produced capital and telecommunications goods are subject to tar- iffs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR are permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET un t il 2001, at which time they are to converge to the CET. In addition, for Uruguay tar iffs on capital goods, telecommunications, buses, and trucks w i ll not converge un t il 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries were generally eliminated, w i th certain exceptions. In U rugu ay 's case, exemptions on Pharmaceuticals, plastics, automobile ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 955 parts, textiles, and da i ry products may remain in place through 1999. Duties on wheat, t ires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices," wh ich provide a basis for a s l id ing surcharge on these goods depend ing on the d ifference between the m i n im um prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses W i thout quo tas Export taxes Occasionally, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to a 5% tax. Taxes collected th rough the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital Transactions The Capital Market Securities and Negotiable Obligations Law provides a framework in wh ich f inanc ial markets are largely self-regulating but supervised by the CBU. Mu tual and private pension funds as well as insurance companies are separately regu- lated. Private pensions must hold a m in imum ratio of total assets (from 30% to 60%) in the form of government securities. In the pub l ic sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of ins t i tu t ion. Government agencies are covered by the ir own by laws, and the central government and departmental governments are cov- ered by the ir own procedures, wh ich are more restrictive. On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonres iden ts Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.a. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents U ruguayan Deposit Receipts (UDRs) are traded under the general securities regulatory f ramewo rk and in some cases under the specific supervision of the CBU. Sale or issue abroad by residents n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 956 URUGUAY On collective investment securities The Mutual Funds Law defines instruments and contains several requirements regard- ing conflict of interest and safekeeping. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no regulations on derivative operations on the security market, as these in- struments, even for commodities, do not exist in U ruguay. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Investment (1997) requires identical treatment of domestic and foreign investors and free transfer of capital. Articles 8 and 9 provide for certain exemptions from wealth and value-added taxes. Article 10 pro- vides for the reduction of social security taxes to a 3% rate. Articles 11-16 establish national priorities and provide corresponding incentives. Article 18 exempts from tariffs imported inputs whose domestic production has been reduced or discontinued. No. No. There is a m i n im um mandatory reserve requirement (10%) for local currency and another for foreign currency, except for 30- to 180-day deposits, on wh ich the local currency reserve requirement is 4% and the foreign currency reserve requirement is 10%. These reserve requirements are for currency holdings and notes, and demand deposits at the CBU in their respective currencies. Nonresident deposits placed w i th nonresidents are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Also, when establishing such reserves, the deposit at the CBU should be in an amount of not less than 50% of the m in imum mandatory reserve requirement. There is a m i n im um inter- est-bearing mandatory reserve requirement of 10% in local currency on total deposits and other obligations covered by the non-interest-bearing reserve requirement regime. This reserve requirement can be established by a deposit at the CBU. There is also an 11.5% mandatory holding in dollar-denominated treasury notes on foreign currency deposits and l iab i l i t ies under the reserve requirement regime, exc lud ing those of nonresidents app ly ing to placements w i th nonresidents. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits There is a ceiling on local and foreign currency-holding positions of 150% of the book value of equ i ty less adm in i s t ra t ive fixed assets. There is also a ceiling on the asset or l iab i l i ty position of foreign-currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., fu tu re contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book value equity (i.e., fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges) less adm in- istrative fixed assets. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Exchange arrangement January L The mon th ly depreciation of the exchange rate band was set at 1.4%. Changes During 1997 May L The mon th ly depreciation of the exchange rate band was set at 1.2%. August L The mon th ly depreciation of the exchange rate band was set at 1%. November L The mon th ly depreciation of the exchange rate band was set at 0.8%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on direct investment URUGUAY 957 November 1. UDRs were established. Trading is supervised by the CBU. December 1. The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Investment (1997) was approved. It requires identical treatment of domestic and foreign investors and free transfer of capital. Articles 8 and 9 provide for certain exemptions from wealth and value-added taxes. Article 10 provides for the reduction of social security taxes to a 3% rate. Articles 11-16 establish national priorities and provide corresponding incen- tives. Article 18 exempts from tariffs imported inpu ts whose domestic production has been reduced or discontinued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of April 30, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Mu l t ip le Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uzbek is tan is the Uzbek sum. There is a rate established on the basis of the results of trad ing on the Uzbek Repub l i- can Currency Exchange and an o f f ic ial rate established by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU). In addition, there are two other rates established by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus on the basis of a commission of up to 12% over the o f f ic ial rate in transac t ions on the over- the-coun ter currency market and on the cash foreign exchange market in foreign exchange bureaus. On Janua ry 1, 1997, the commercial bank rate became the rate that is applied to purchase of foreign exchange for payments and imports of priority consumer goods and other current transactions. The auction rate applied to impor ts of capital goods, raw materials, and servicing of external debt. The official exchange rate of the sum v is -a -v is foreign currencies has been determined weekly taking into account current rates and transaction volumes on the currency ex- change and in the over-the-counter market as well as changes in the most impo r tant macroeconomic indicators. Trading takes place on the Uzbek Repub l ican Currency Exchange. Exchange rates for currencies that are not traded are determined from cross rates in the international market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Yes. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control au thor i t ies Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich Uzbekistan m a in t a ins b i la teral payment agree- ments are effected in accordance w i th the terms of the agreements. Under agreements w i th Russia and Ukra ine, trade in local currency is permitted. Transactions w i th other countries are settled in convertible currencies. Uzbekistan ma in ta ins agreements w i th Ma lays ia, Russ ia, and Ukraine. Agreements w i th Belarus, Indones ia, the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Kazakhs tan, La tv ia, and Moldova are inoperative. The CBU is responsible for foreign exchange regu la t ions and the superv is ion of authorized banks. The allocation of foreign exchange is de term ined by the Repub l ican Monetary Policy Committee (RMPC). The M in i s t ry of Foreign Economic Re la t ions (MFER) is responsible for negotiating trade agreements w i th non t rad i t ional trad ing partners, as well as those agreements denominated in hard currency w i th t rad i t ional trading partners. It is also responsible for imp l em en t ing fo re ign trade agreements and 958 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 959 external trade policy through the issuance of export licenses and quotas. The M in i s t ry of Justice is responsible for approving foreign direct investment in the form of jo int ventures. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency With the exception of jewelry and collectibles, trade in gold is prohibited. However, jo int ventures operating in the precious metals sector are free to export a portion of their ou tpu t, corresponding to the share of profits of the foreign par t ic ipan t. Em igran ts are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewe lry or personal effects. Un t il Apr il 1, 1998, when the l im it was raised to the equivalent of $1,500, residents were prohibited from exporting freely convertible currency in banknotes in excess of $500 unless permission was granted by the CBU or an authorized bank. Legal entities are not allowed to export foreign banknotes. Un t il Apr il 1, 1998, when the l im it was raised to $10,000 and the fee was reduced to 1%, ind iv idua ls impor t ing more than the equivalent of $5,000 in banknotes were sub- ject to a fee of 2% of the amount of foreign exchange imported. Legal entities are not allowed to import foreign banknotes. Eligibility to bold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Na tu ral persons are not entitled to open these accounts. The CBU may approve ac- counts abroad on a case-by-case basis. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a preregistered contract before they can purchase foreign exchange. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 UZBEKISTAN Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The RMPC establishes monthly and quarterly foreign exchange quotas to certain im- ports, importers, and commercial banks. Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required as an alternative to ex ante registration of import contracts. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses All imports are subject to prior contract registration. Effective March 1, 1998, import- ers w i th their own source of foreign exchange are exempt from registration. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of medicines, weapons, precious metals, u ran ium and other radioactive sub- stances, foreign motion pictures and videos, and research data require import licenses from the MFER. A system of state tenders has been established for imports of major food items (e.g., sugar, wheat). The importation of publications, manuscripts, video and audio equipment, and photo- graphs aimed at underm in ing state and social order are prohibited. On November 1, 1997, the tariff structure was changed. The coverage was extended and the average rate increased to 29% from 21%; the rate on most consumer goods was raised to 30%. The m in imum import duty was raised to 3% from 1%. In addition, excise taxes ranging from 20% to 35% apply to 20 groups of imported consumer goods. On March 1, 1998, a charge applied to duty-free imports of goods by indi- v idua ls in excess of $1,000 was increased to 20% from 15%. Shu t t le trade and per- sonal goods shipped from abroad are subject to a 50% tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Proceeds in foreign currencies from exports of goods and services are subject to a surrender requirement at the off ic ial rate to commercial banks. Proceeds in convertible currencies from centralized exports (including gold and cot- ton) are subject to a 100% surrender requirement to the Central Bank at the o f f ic ial rate. Effective November 1, 1997, prepayment requirement (15%) or LC was replaced w i th a bank guarantee, provided that the goods are produced and exported for freely con- vertible currencies. Yes. Since September 1997, bank payment guarantee has been required whenever prepay- ment or LC requ irement is waived. Exports of weapons, precious metals, u ran ium and other radioactive substances, for- eign motion pictures and videos, and research data require licenses from the MFER. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W i th quotas Export taxes UZBEKISTAN 961 Exportation of nonferrous metals, crude oil, gas condensate, gasoline, diesel fuel, l int and cotton fiber, and ferrous metals is subject to export licensing in the amount of established quotas. Exports of sugar, alcohol, vegetable oil, wheat and f lour products, meat and poultry, tea, raw hides and skins, dried m i lk, and antiques are prohibited. Export customs duties were eliminated in November 1, 1997. Effective January 1, 1998, enterprises exporting goods produced by them to CIS countries are exempt from VAT and excises. Excise taxes apply to exports of certain home appliances and all reexports. A 50% excise applicable to alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, con- struction materials, and cigarettes exported by trad ing companies was introduced in November 1997. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market ins trumen ts On collective inves tment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 962 UZBEKISTAN Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Yes. Yes. Yes. Enterprises may establish jo int ventures as foreign direct investment w i th the approval of the Ministry of Justice. Foreign equity capital participation is allowed up to 100%. A foreign participation of at least 30% is required for access to fiscal incentives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Permission from the CBU is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are allowed to make loans in foreign currencies, subject to the l im it on the for- eign currency open position. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on por tfo l io invested locally Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. No. Exchange arrangement January 1. The commercial bank rate became the rate applied to purchases of foreign exchange for payments of imports of most goods and for other current transactions. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments UZBEKISTAN 963 November 1. The tar iff structure was changed; the coverage was extended, and the average rate increased to 29% from 21%. Import duties on most consumer goods were increased to 30%. November 1. Export customs duties were eliminated. Licensing of exports was abol- ished for basic goods. November L Surrender requirements on noncentralized exports were un if ied at 30% for all receipts. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks at the off ic ial ex- change rate. November L The 15% prepayment requirement or LC was replaced w i th bank guaran- tee for export in freely convertible currencies. Changes During 1998 April L Residents were permitted to export cash in foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of $1,500. Foreign currency equivalent to $10,000 may also be imported w i thout any fees, wh i le imports in excess of $10,000 were levied a fee of 1%. January 1. Enterprises exporting goods produced by them to CIS countries were ex- empt from VAT and excises. March 1. Only import contracts whose execution is not secured w i th own foreign exchange resources would be subject to registration. March L A charge applied to duty-free imports of goods by ind iv idua ls in excess of $1,000 was increased to 20% from 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1982. Currency The currency of Vanua tu is the Vanua tu vatu. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The external value of the vatu is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies of V anu a tu 's major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanua tu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks dollars only. However, it also deals in pounds sterling, French francs, Aus tra l ian dollars, deutsche mark, New Zealand dollars, and Japanese yen w i th other customers. The RBV quotes rates daily for the vatu against the above currencies. Buy ing and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted twice a day w i th in margins ranging between 0.25% and 0.30% around the middle rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 964 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures VANUATU 965 Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of frozen chicken, chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanua tu motif, firearms and ammun i t ion, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of rice, sugar, flour, canned f i sh, and tobacco products. Pos i t ive l ist Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duties are levied ma in ly on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values, but alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and petroleum products are subject to specific duties. Higher du ty rates apply to goods that compete w i th domestically produced goods. A customs service charge of 5% is applied to most imports, based on du ty - inc lu s ive values. Under an agreement amended in December 1995, certain products (frozen beef, canned tuna, tea, coffee, yogurt, cheese and curd, wooden furn i ture, kava, jam, f ru it jellies, portland cement, matches, fiberglass boats, toilet paper, iron and steel nails, and plastic shopping bags) may be shipped du ty-free between Vanua tu, Solomon Is- lands, and Papua New Gu inea. Goods imported by the government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores, goods imported for processing and re- exportation, and goods imported for investment projects are exempt from duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses W i thout quo tas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. The exportation of logs has been banned for env ironmen tal reasons. Exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother-of- pearl, aquar ium f ish, and crustaceans, as well as coconut crops for conservation pur- poses, are subject to au thor iza t ion. Exports of copra, cocoa, and kava are channeled through the V anu a tu Commodities Marke t ing Board (VCMB); however, exports of kava can be under taken by ind iv idua ls subject to au thor iza t ion from the VCMB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 966 VANUATU Export taxes Artifacts hav ing a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to authorization from the Cu l tu ral Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, ma in ly on an ad valorem basis. Specific duties are levied on exports of timber products and a few other items. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Capital Transactions All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of January 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: Ju ly 1, 1976. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Classification Managed f loa t ing The exchange rate is determined by supply and demand, but the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV) intervenes in the market. The CBV determines the reference ex- change rate daily. An exchange rate band of ±7.5% around the central rate w i th an initial rate of Bs 470 per $1 and a monthly adjustment of 1.5% was introduced on Ju ly 8, 1996. The level and monthly adjustment of the central rate were changed to Bs 472 per $1 and 1.32% on January 2, 1997, to Bs 497 per $1 and 1.16% on August 1, 1997, and to Bs 508.5 per $1 and 1.28% on January 13, 1998. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Futures on the bolivar-dollar exchange rate have been traded since September 1997. Off ic ial cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through the accounts maintained w i th each other at the CBV. Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payment arrears Yes. No. No. Off ic ial Private Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external public debt, amoun t ing to $79 million at end-1997. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins is subject to prior authorization from the CBV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 967 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 968 VENEZUELA Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Nonresident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. This is only in cases of inheritance, preventive judicial measures, and narcotraffic activities. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Some imports are subject to licensing for environmental, health, or security reasons. Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense M in is try. Imports of nonmilitary weapons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affa irs. Some 24 tariff items, of wh ich 7 are chemicals and about 17 are agro-industrial products, require approval from the import office. Importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. Licenses w i th quotas A small number of agricultural products are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Pact. The common external tariff on motor vehicles is 35% for passenger cars, 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles (except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as p ickup trucks, for wh ich the rate is 25%), and 3% for vehicle components and parts manufactured in member countries. Specific duties apply to agricultural products and certain other products (e.g., mineral fue ls, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and b i tum inous substances). The indus tr ial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from cus- toms tar iffs. Duty-free access is granted to imports from Colombia, Ecuador, and CARICOM countries under trade agreements. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 969 Exports and Export Proceeds No. The state petroleum company (PDVSA) is required to surrender its export proceeds to the CBV. No. No. No. There is an export tax on hydrocarbon. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Ex- change but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. These transactions must be authorized by the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV), tak ing into account the governmen t's op in ion. Sale or issue abroad by residents Au thor iza t ion by the CNV is required. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions must be authorized by the CNV, taking into account the govern- ment's opinion. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective inves tment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization by the CNV is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no controls, although market participants operate under some regulations. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct inves tment Mass media, commun ica t ions, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are re- served for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered w i th the SIEX after the fact, and approval is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 970 VENEZUELA Controls on liquidation of direct investment au toma t ica l ly granted if the new inves tment is consistent w i th na t ional leg is la t ion. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Venezuela w i thout prior authoriza- tion as long as they are consistent w i th the Commercial Code. The SIEX must, how- ever, be notified w i th in 60 working days about new ly established subsidiaries. Investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Owners of direct inves tment have the right to reexport the proceeds of l iqu ida t ion wh i le SIEX checks the performance of the comm i tmen ts of foreign investors in accor- dance w i th national legislation. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks must report to the Superintendancy of Banks on a mon th ly basis any transfer of assets above $10,000, or its equ iva lent in another currency, to or from another coun try. Lending locally in foreign exchange Local banks can make loans denominated in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Inves tment regulations There are l im i ts regulated by the CBV in relation to foreign exchange position l im i ts. Commercial banks are not allowed to invest in stocks in excess of 20% of paid-in capital. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on de r iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts Changes During 1997 January 2. The central rate of the band was set at Bs 472 per $1, and its mon th ly ad- jus tment to 1.32%. August 1. The central rate of the band was set at Bs 497 per $1, and its mon th ly ad- jus tment to 1.16%. September 19. Futures on the bo l ivar-do l lar exchange rate were introduced. April 16. Regulations related to the derivatives market were introduced. Controls on personal capital movements July 31. Financial ins t i tu t ions were required to report to the Superintendancy of Banks transactions made by the clients in foreign currency. Exchange arrangement January 13. The central rate of the band was set at Bs 508.5 per $1. Dur ing the rest of 1998, the central rate w i ll be adjusted 1.28% a month. Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of V ie tnam is the Vietnamese dong. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed f loa t ing Trading in the interbank market must take place at exchange rates w i th in ranges stipulated daily by the State Bank of V ie tnam (SBV). Only the SBV, state-owned banks, such as the Bank of Inves tment and Development, joint-stock banks, jo in t- venture banks, and branches of foreign banks may participate in the exchange market. On March 1, 1997, the au thor i t ies widened the f luc tua t ion t rad ing band for the dong in the interbank market to 5% from 1%, and to 10% on October 14. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Off ic ial cover of fo rwa rd operations No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. Exchange control au tho r i t ies Exchange control is adm in is tered by the SBV. Payment arrears O f f ic ial Pr iva te Yes. n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic owne rsh ip and/or trade n .a. Controls on ex ternal trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Gold may be brought into the coun t ry, provided that required customs declarations are made and a cus toms ta r i ff is pa id; nonres iden ts are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The importation of gold by residents requires a license from the SBV. n .a. A bank pe rm it is required for amoun ts exceeding $7,000. 971 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 972 On impor ts Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency VIETNAM n.a. Amoun ts in excess of $7,000 must be declared to customs. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tural persons are eligible. Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds in foreign exchange accounts at domestic commercial banks that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange business. Limits on foreign exchange holdings in such accounts are set by the commercial banks app ly ing rules set by the SBV. Deposits in excess of those l im- its must be sold to the commercial banks. Yes. Firms in the av ia t ion, sh ipp ing, postal, and insurance sectors, as well as commercial banks, finance companies, and other f irms permitted to open branches abroad, may be granted permission to deposit foreign currency receipts from inv is ib le transactions in foreign accounts. Prior approval is required. These accounts may be maintained by Vietnamese enterprises that import goods and make paymen ts for foreign services, by foreign enterprises that produce import substi- tutes and bu i ld infras truc ture, and by some important foreign investment projects. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget The budget is indicative only and therefore, not binding. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Foreign trade enterprises require on ly a t rad ing license. Some imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade (MOT). Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Imports of weapons, ammun i t ion and explosives, and m i l i tary equipment; drugs and toxic chemicals; dangerous and unhea l thy cu l tu ral products; "reactionary and de- praved" cu l tural products; fireworks and ch i ld ren 's toys that detrimentally inf luence personality, education, social order, and safety; most used consumer goods; most used equipment operating at less than 80% of original specifications or over 10 years old; and most lef t-hand dr iven cars are proh ib i ted. Yes. All import quotas are fo rma l ly approved by the government. The M in i s t ry of P lann ing and Inves tment (MOPI), in coordination w i th the MOT, may also impose ad hoc tem- porary qu an t i ty controls. Imports of most consumer goods are subject to import licens- ing. Imports of steel, cement, fer t i l izer, passenger cars w i th less than 12 seats, motorcycles, petroleum products, and sugar are subject to qu an t i t a t ive con t ro ls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 973 Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tar iffs range up to 60%. Most imports of mach inery, equipment, and medicine are exempt from ta r i f fs. Certain impor ts of foreign enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Inves tmen t, are also exempt from tar iffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft drinks, cosmetics, and automo- biles. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements All receipts mu st be repatriated, but no deadline is specified. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export earnings are subject to surrender requirements of up to 30%, but are not s tr ic t ly enforced. V ie tnamese economic en t i t ies and foreign inve s tment enterprises whose foreign currency needs are met by the au thor i t ies are required to surrender the ir for- eign currency balances to credit ins t i tu t ions at the end of each mon th af ter making an allowance for the ir foreign exchange needs in the coming mon th. Financing requirements No. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export licenses for each sh ipment of rice, crude o i l, products made of wood and rat- tan, and reexported goods are not required. State-owned f i rms w i th an annu al export turnover of more than $5 m i l l ion may ob ta in permanent direct foreign trading rights, whereas those w i th an annual export turnover in the range of $2 m i l l ion to $5 m i l l ion may ob ta in temporary direct foreign t rad ing rights. Exports of rice are subject to quota. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All transactions require ind iv idual au thor iza t ion from the M in i s t ry of Finance. Pay- ments for inv i s ib les related to authorized impor ts are not restricted. There are no quan t i ta t ive l im i ts in the case of paymen ts for f re ight and insurance, un load ing and storage costs, adm in i s t r a t ive expenses, and comm iss ions. In fo rma t ion on app l ica t ion of quan t i ta t ive l im i ts and/or bona fide tests on most other transactions was not ava i l- able at the t ime of pub l ica t ion. Rem i t tances are subject to a tax of 5% to 10%. Allocations exceeding the l im i ts require SBV perm iss ion. The l im it is $7,000 a t r ip, but the allocation can be raised to $10,000, if a traveler is us ing foreign exchange drawn from his/her own foreign currency accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated, but no deadline is specified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 974 VIETNAM Surrender requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are the same as w i th other foreign exchange ho ld ings. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market ins t rumen ts On collective inves tment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations State-owned enterprises are subject to ex ternal borrowing ceilings. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents No specific regulations exist. To residents from nonresidents Vietnamese organizations and c i t izens who need foreign currency for p roduc t ion and business purposes have been permitted, upon ver if ica t ion by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries, the borrower must report periodi- cally to the SBV the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, inc lud ing loan repayments. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents No specific regu la t ions exist. To residents from nonresidents These transac t ions are subject to prior approval by the SBV. Guaran tees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Ou tward direct inves tment Inwa rd direct inves tment n.a. Inves tmen ts require special perm iss ion of the SBV and are not no rma l ly permitted. Regu la t ions prov ide for three forms of foreign inves tmen t: (1) contracted bus iness cooperation, such as produc t-shar ing arrangements; (2) jo int ventures between a for- eign investor and a V ie tnamese pr iva te enterprise or state economic organ iza t ion; and (3) f i rms who l ly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is at least 30%. There is a l im it of 50-70 years on the du ra t ion of the enterprise w i th foreign capital. The au thor i ty to grant foreign inves tment licenses is entrusted to the MOPI for projects under $1 m i l l ion; for projects over $1 m i l l ion, the p rov inc ial authorities concerned are consulted. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents n.a. Purchase locally by nonresidents Land cannot be owned by foreign investors, but must be leased from the state. Sale loca l ly by nonresidents n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Bo r row ing abroad SBV app roval is requ ired. Ma in tenance of accounts abroad SBV approval is requ ired. Lend ing to nonres iden ts ( f inanc ial or commerc ial credits) SBV approval is requ ired. Lend ing loca l ly in foreign exchange n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 975 Purchase of locally issued securities de- nominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inve s tment regu la t ions n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it on the total open position is 15% of capital. Exchange arrangement March 1. The exchange rate band was widened to 5% from 1%. October 14. The exchange rate band was widened to 10% from 5%. Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Currency The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni rial. Exchange rate structure Un i tary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the rial is determined by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Administration of control No. No. Exchange control authorities Exchange control authority is vested w i th the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of rial banknotes are prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Imports of rial banknotes are prohibited. Resident Accounts Juridical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 976 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 977 Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Jur id ical and na tural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses All importers holding an import license for wheat or flour may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the CBY. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Some imports are banned for security and religious reasons, and three categories of goods are banned for economic reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as well as certain types of used machinery. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. Yes. No. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports are registered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 978 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Short-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector are prohibited. Approval by the Council of Ministers is required for contracting medium- and long-term foreign loans by the pub l ic sector. Yes. No. Liquidation is free for approved and registered projects. No. No. Commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations re- garding currency exposure and to report their positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure M u l t i p le Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian kwacha. There are four exchange rates: (1) the off ic ial exchange rate, which is applied to all government transactions (including debt service), the purchase of proceeds from ex- ternal borrowing, and donor assistance by the Bank of Zambia (BOZ); (2) the com- mercial banks' corporate rate; (3) the commercial banks' retail rate; and (4) the in te rbank rate. The official rate is market determined, and the spread between the BOZ's buy ing and selling rates is fixed at 1.6%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assistance fund s, and export earnings), the BOZ determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the market through the dealing w indow. The exchange rates preva i l ing in the interbank market follow closely those established at the BOZ's dealing window. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Zamb ia is a member of COMESA. All exchange controls have been abolished. The M in is t ry of Commerce, Trade, and Indus t ry is responsible for trade control. International security restrictions No. Payment arrears Off ic ial Pr iva te Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require approval from the M in is t ry of Mines. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amoun ts exceeding $5,000 mu st be declared. 979 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 980 ZAMBIA Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Presh ipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to preshipment inspection, except when the c.i.f. va lue of each import consignment is less than $2,000. Yes. Yes. Licenses for statistical purposes are required, but they are granted au toma t ica l ly by commercial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic ship- ments, and vehicles brought in temporarily are exempted from this requirement. There is an import ban on wheat flour. Yes. MFN tariff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, there is a 5% Import Declaration Fee, which will be abolished effective July 1, 1998. A number of products are subject to specific rates. Imports from COMESA countries are subject to a tariff equivalent to 60% of the MFN tar iff. Some imports are exempt under the Investment Act (1991). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 981 Documentation requirements All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for most goods, although they are administered rou t ine ly by commercial banks under au thor i ty delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Indus try. Exports of ivory are prohibited. White maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus w i thout the prior approval of the BOZ, subject to the requirement that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Outward transfers are free of controls. No restrictions apply to the sale of assets be- tween nonresidents and between residents and nonresidents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All borrowing must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. No. Informa t ion on bo r row ing abroad is submitted to the BOZ for statistical purposes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 1997 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31, 1997) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Currency The currency of Zimbabwe is the Z imbabwe do l lar. Exchange rate structure Un i ta ry. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independent f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external va lue of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined in the exchange marke t. The U.S. dollar is the in te rven t ion currency. Au tho r ized dealers and foreign exchange bureaus base their rates for foreign currencies on current in te rna t ional market rates. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) between the buy ing and selling rates is 0.8% for all currencies. Au thor ized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25% on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are permitted on ly for trade transactions. There is no l im it on the size of such contracts, but their dura t ion must be at least one year, depending on the currencies invo lved and the type of coverage. Forward sales of foreign ex- change take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate p lus a p rem ium load ing for six months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Au thor ized dealers are expected to quote to the ir customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of 17 currencies freely convertible through authorized dealers, w i th the exception of payments other- wise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. There is an arrangement w i th Malaysia. Under the Clearing House Agreement w i th in the PTA, residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of th is period in convertible currencies. Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the M in is ter of Finance. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions Payment arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No person, either as principal or agent, may deal in or possess gold un less that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or d is t r ibu tor of a registered 982 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 983 m in ing location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the l aw f ul possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit au tho r iz ing the acqu is i t ion, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the q u a n t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for M ines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or d i s t r ibu tor of a registered m in ing location is required to lodge w i th th is bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the following month. Any person in tend ing to smelt gold or any article con ta in ing gold must f i rst obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that au thor- izes the possession of smelting equipment. The exportation of gold in unmanu fac tu red form is controlled and licensed by the M in i s t ry of Mines; these controls do not apply to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, wh ich re- qu ires those in tend ing to import gold into Z imbabwe to meet certain requ iremen ts. Travelers may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to Z$250. Travelers may take out, as part of the ir travel allowance, up to the equ iva lent of US$500. Nonresident travelers may take out the trave ler's checks they b rought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Z imbabwean currency in to foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. A traveler may br ing in up to Z$250. Foreign currency and trave ler's checks may be imported w i thout restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers or foreign ex- change bureaus. Resident Accounts Jur id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. Resident ind iv idua ls may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds w i thd rawn from these accounts and con- verted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the amount of the initial investment and income or capital gains from in- vestments in listed companies on the stock exchange, unlisted companies, or money market accounts. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. n.a. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Ju r id ical and na tu ral persons are eligible. These accounts may be credited w i th foreign currencies, w i th payments from other nonresident accounts, or w i th paymen ts by residents that wou ld be e l ig ib le for t ran s fer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 984 ZIMBABWE outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident in- dividuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market- determined exchange rates. Funds w i thdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock ex- change, unlisted companies, or money markets. Prior approval is required to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible in to foreign currency Yes. n.a. Blocked accounts Only former residents residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various controls. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M i n im um f inanc ing requirements No. n.a. Advance payment requirement Authorized dealers may approve advance payments for imports up to US$50,000. Advance import deposits n.a. Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized im- ports, provided the necessary documentation is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local non- resident account or in any foreign currency. Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit n.a. n.a. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements; however, imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs The negative list for imports includes, in addition to items restricted for hea l th or se- cu r i ty reasons, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewelry items. n.a. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are app l ied to certain ag r icu l tu ral products. The customs du ty regime consists ma in ly of ad valorem duties, wh ich range up to a max imum of 30% of the c.i.f. va lue for most consumer goods (up to 60% to 85% for vehicles), w i th a surtax of 10% on finished goods and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equ iva lent to the sales taxes imposed on goods sold domestically. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs du t ies. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly Maize may be imported only by the Grain Marketing Board or by others w i th the permission of the Board. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 985 Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requ iremen ts Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses W i thout quo tas Exporters are permitted to retain 100% of export proceeds in foreign exchange. Mar- ke t ing boards, however, are required to sell 100% of export proceeds to authorized dealers. Goods may not be exported w i thout permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or w i ll be made w i th in three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in one of the fo l low ing ways: (1) in a denomi- nated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Ma lawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Ma lawi kwacha or Botswana pu la, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries may use national currencies in the settlement of payments du r ing a transaction period of two mon ths, w i th net balances at the end of th is period to be settled in convertible currencies. Ex- ports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export pro- ceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable LC issued or confirmed before exportation by a reputable overseas bank. n.a. n.a. n.a. Export licenses are required for the fo l low ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac tured product of chrome, copper, l i t h i um, n icke l, t in, or tungs ten; (2) petro- leum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carry ing l iqu ids or sem i l iqu ids; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) w i ld an ima ls and w i ld an imal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammon ium nitrate; and (9) armaments. Export- licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are re- quired from the M in i s t ry of Lands and Ag r icu l tu re for some basic ag r icu l tu ral com- modities, inc lud ing maize, oilseeds, cheese, m i lk, seeds, potatoes, citrus f ru i t s, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments F re igh t / in su rance Quantitative limits Commissions Prior approval Foreign exchange to pay for inv i s ib les related to impor ts and, w i th in certain l im i t s, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated au thor i ty. App l ica- tions for foreign exchange exceeding the l im i ts established for commercial banks are approved by the RBZ, wh ich deals w i th each case on its merits. All payments and transfers are subject to indicative l im i ts and/or bona fide tests, ex- cept for amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments, foreign workers' wages, pensions, and gamb l ing and prize earnings, for wh ich in fo rma t ion is not available. The l im i ts are 30% of f.o.b. va lue of goods transported, but for goods that are of ex- ceptional mass in relation to va lue, up to 80% of the f.o.b. va lue may be approved. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 986 ZIMBABWE Quantitative limits Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits The fo l low ing l im i ts apply: (1) conforming commission —up to 2.5% of c.i.f. value; (2) buy ing commission —up to 5% of f.o.b. value; (3) foreign travel agents —up to 10% of sales; and (4) selling commission —up to 7.5% of f.o.b. value. Yes. All dividends declared by foreign investors in the export sector after January 1, 1995, may be remitted to foreign shareholders w i thout restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Blocked funds relating to prof i ts and dividends earned on foreign inves tmen ts made prior to May 1993 may be externalized over a three-year period starting Ju ly 1, 1995. Foreign companies established prior to September 1979 are permitted to remit 50% of net after-tax prof i ts if exports comprise more than 25% of total sales. If direct foreign exchange allocation was used, the fo l low ing rules apply: ( 1) a who l ly foreign-owned company that meets the criteria to qu a l i fy as an export f i rm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange or surp lus funds is permitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax prof i ts on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a max imum of 50% for five years from the beginning of operations, after wh ich the company w i ll qua l i fy for 100% re- mittance of dividends; (2) a who l ly foreign-owned company with its own blocked funds is permitted to repatriate 100% of its declared dividends, provided it meets all its foreign exchange requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new jo int venture that meets the criteria to qua l i fy as an export f i rm and has at least 30% local participation, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100% of its share of de- clared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources (blocked and surp lus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result of the limited remittance of dividends). The fo l low ing regulations app ly to inves tmen ts in the m i n i ng sector: (1) a who l ly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100% of its net after-tax prof i ts, provided that it qua l i f ies as an export- oriented project; (2) a who l ly foreign-owned company that funds its projects th rough a combination of foreign funds and either its own blocked fund s, switched blocked funds, or surp lus funds (subject to a m in imum matching fo rmu la of 50-50) is allowed to remit dividends of up to 50% in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the m in imum 30% local participa- tion criterion is also determined by the matching formu la used by the foreign share- holder. Af ter f ive years, the company can remit 100% of its d iv idends to the foreign shareholder. Amo r t iza t ion of loans or depreciation of direct inves tmen ts n.a. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Quantitative limits Yes. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is US$5,000 a year. Ch i ldren under 10 years are entitled to half th is amount. The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is up to US$600 a day. The l im it is US$20,000 a trip for the patient and one companion. A travel allowance up to US$250 a person a day may be allowed. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Study abroad costs Prior approval Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for certain diploma and degree courses w i th RBZ approval. Quantitative limits The limit is US$50,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 987 Subscr ip t ions and membersh ip fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Consu l t ing / legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The annual l im it for a company is US$20,000. The l im it for an in i t ial membership fee is Z$250. Yes. The annu al l im it is US$5,000 an ind iv idu a l. Foreign workers' wages n.a. Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Gamb l ing /p r ize earn ings Prior approval Quantitative limits Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittance of pensions of former residents is guaranteed under the constitution. n .a. n.a. Yes. Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred, w i th the exception of the f irst prize. Yes. The annual l im it is US$2,000 for alimony and child support payments. Yes. Credit cards may be used abroad up to the l im i ts set for inv is ib le transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requ i remen ts Receipts from inv is ib les must be sold to authorized banks w i th in a reasonable period of time. Residents performing services abroad may retain a portion of the ir earnings. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inwa rd transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are controlled. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Mar- ket us ing currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. The in i- t ial inves tment p lus any capital gains and d iv idend income may be remitted w i thout restriction. Foreign investors may also invest up to a m ax imum of 15% of the assets brought in to Zimbabwe in pr imary issues of bonds and stocks. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 988 ZIMBABWE On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4%. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents n.a. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct inves tment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment The l im it on foreign borrowing w i thout prior approval of the External Loans Coordi- nating Committee is US$5 million. Gold producers undertaking new expansion proj- ects are permitted access to offshore f inanc ing in the form of gold loans. n.a. Yes. n.a. Yes. Direct foreign inves tmen ts up to US$40 m i l l ion in the preferred areas (m in ing, agro- indus t ry, manu fac tu r ing, tour ism, and high-technology services) are approved by the Zimbabwe Inves tment Centre. In the preferred areas, 100% foreign owne rsh ip is permitted; it is restricted to 25% in other areas. Previously blocked fund s, whe ther already converted into government bonds or not, can qua l i fy as new venture cap i tal if they are reinvested in Zimbabwe in an approved project and matched by an i n f l ow of inves tment funds of up to 50% of the reinvested blocked fund s, as determined by the RBZ. Blocked funds can be used by third parties, foreign as well as domestic, for in- vestment on freely negotiated terms; as new venture cap i ta l, the total inves tment is eligible to be remitted as d iv idends for up to 50% of after-tax prof i ts. However, the "blocked" portion of the new inves tmen t, un l ike new ven ture capital, mu st be rein- vested in Zimbabwe for at least f ive years. All foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979, may be considered for repatriation up to the va lue of capital invested less dividends transferred abroad. The balance may be transferred only through the established medium of six-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4% a year. Repa tr ia t ion may be perm i t ted w i t h o ut restriction if funds are used to acquire foreign exchange and if d i v i- dends were not remitted w i th such fund s. The repa tr ia t ion of capital invested before September 1, 1979, is prohibited. However, shareholders are allowed, w i t h in l im i t s, to apply to the RBZ for the rem i t tance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such app l ica t ion is approved, the capital is invested in ex ternal gov- ernment bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4% a year and carry ing a m a t u r i ty of 12 years (for i n d i v i d u a l s) or 20 years (for f i rms ). Repa tr ia t ion at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equ i ty is allowed. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans G if ts, endowmen ts, inher i tances, and legacies Settlements of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants ZIMBABWE 989 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allow- ance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to Z$ 1,000 a fam i ly un i t. In excep- tional cases, the exchange control authorities w i ll consider applications exceeding th is max imum. All those app ly ing for emigrant status are required to liquidate the ir assets w i th in six mon ths and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwean government external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply w i th the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the RBZ. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) for a person un- der the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) for a person aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; (3) for fam i ly un i ts and single persons (under 60 years of age) w i th dependents, Z$ 1,000; (4) for fam i ly un i ts (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) for persons over 80 years of age, Z$ 10,000; and (6) for handicapped or disabled persons, Z$ 10,000. A fu r ther release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's departure as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrow ing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange D i f f e r en t i al trea tment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Inves tment regulations n.a. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n .a. n.a. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts Au thor ized dealers are subject to overn ight net foreign currency exposure l im i t s. Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max .) on securities issued by non res iden ts and on po r t fo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max .) on po r t fo l io invested abroad n .a. n .a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 990 ZIMBABWE L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Purchase of shares by foreign investors is l im i ted to 25% of the total equ i ty of the company, w i th a l im it of 5% for one investor. These l im i ts are in addition to any exist- ing foreign shareholdings in the companies. Currency-ma tch ing regulations on assets/liabilities composition n.a. Changes During 1997 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDICES ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other Institutional investors 145 39 48 18 17 55 46 19 5 56 55 102 111 85 197 111 102 82 110 114 00 143 54 128 64 1 ^9 68 V + e T 0 £ 0 For key and footnotes, see page 998. 992 T o t t i a t l u n h m e a b e r n u o c e o u f r i r t s e w h i s f t A f n a h g i s t n a , s I l a m i c S t a t o e f A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A o g n l a A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a B a h a m s a , T e h B h a r a i n B s e d a g n a l h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B u g e l i m B e i l e z B n e i n B u h t n a B o i l a v i B o s a n i d n a H e r a n v o g e z i Capital market securities credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • — • • • — — — — • • — — — • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • — • • — — — — — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • — — — • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • — • — — • • • • • — — • • • — • • — — Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B r e n u i D a r u a s s l a m B a g u l i r a B u r k i a n F s a o B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R b u p e i l c C d a h C h l i e C a n h i H g n o K S g n o , R A C o o l m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o , D e m . R o p e . f C o g n o , R o p e . f C o s t a R i a c C 6 t e d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i a c n i D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S o d a v a l r E a u q t o i r a l G a e n u i E r t i r a e E s t n o i a E t p o h i i a • • • 0 04 4 0 44 4 44 • +0 ® /T • • • • • • • • Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments _, . . ,. Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors e V T V V _ _ 0 _ V f V For key and footnotes, see page 998. 994 F i j i d n a n F i l F r e c n a G n o b a G a m b i a , T e h G o e r g i a G e r m y n a G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G a e n u i G a e n u i - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H a g n u r y I e c l d n a I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , s I l a m i c R p e . o f r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • — • • • • — — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — • — • • • — — — — — — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — • • • — • • • — • • • • • • • — • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K h k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L v a t i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a L e x u m u o b r g M a n o d e c a i , f m r . Y o g u s l v a R p e . M a c s a g a d a r 1 M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M s e v d a l i M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l d n a s I l s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M o c x e i M i c r a s e n o i , F d e . S t a t s e o f M a v o d o l M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m e u q b i M n a y m a r N a m i b i a • • • • • • 0 0 • • • • 0 A e A A e e A T • • • • • • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • • _ _ • » • — • • — — • • • • _ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • _ • • • • — • • — • • — • — • — • • • • — — • • — • • — • • • • — • • — • — — • — • • • • — • • • • • • — • • — • • _ • _ • • • • _ •* • _ • _ • • • — • • • • _ _ * — — • — • _ _ __ _ _ — _ • _ _ • • _ _ _ • __ - _ • _ • • _• • • • — • • — _ _ __ • _ . _ _ • _ • • _ __ • _• * * _ • 995 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix I: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (as of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: l _ , . . ,. Lollectwe investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other Institutional investors 0 Q T 0 0 0 0 0 0 f A Q Q £ A Q £ Q £ T 0 + e For key and footnotes, see page 998. 996 N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i s e n p p i d n a o P l o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a t e h G r s e n d a n e i S a m a o credit institutions Capital market securities Money market instruments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— • • — • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • — • — • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — — — • • — • — — — • — • — • • — Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 S n a M a i r o n S o a T o m e d n a P i r e p c n i S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e k a v o S l R b u p e i l c n e v o S l i a o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e j S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r d a d n i d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u • • • • • 0 • 0 • © e e + T + • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • — • • • • • • • _ — • — • • • • — • • • — • — • • • — • — — • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — — • _ _ • •_ _ • • __ _ • • • • • 997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. • indicates that data were not available at time of publication. • indicates that the arrangement is pegged to the U.S. dollar. 4 indicates that the arrangement is pegged to the French franc. 0 indicates that arrangements are pegged either to the Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, Portuguese Escudo, Singapore dollar, or South African rand. A indicates that the composite is the SDR. 0 indicates that the composite is a basket of other currencies. + indicates that flexibility is limited to a single currency. V indicates that the country participates in the ERM of the EMS. 1 The listing includes Hong Kong, SAR; Aruba; and the Nether- lands Antilles. It excludes Palau, which joined the IMF on December 16,1997, but for which information was not avail- able at the time of publication. 2 Usually December 31,1997. f o c i l b u p e R , n e m Y e a l e u z e n e V u t a u n a V m a n e t i V e w b a b m i Z a i b m a Z n a t s i k e b z U Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Pegged to: Single currency Composite of currencies Flexibility limited More flexible arrangements Managed floating Independent floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates • • • • • e • • • • • • Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payment arrangements • Payment arrears Control on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors 998 • • • • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • — • • • — • _ — • • • • • • • • • • — • _ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • APPENDIX II: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Mu l t ip le Classification Pegged Limited f lex ib i l i ty in respect to a single currency Cooperative arrangement Adjusted according to a set of indicators Managed floating Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payment arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange Arrangement Arrangements for Payments and Receipts 999 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution iooo APPENDIX II Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance w i th UN sanctions Other Payment arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Jur id ical persons 'Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign «*urrency Eligibility to hold accounts Ju r id ical persons Na tu ral persons Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 1001 Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports M in imum f inanc ing requirements Advance payment requirement Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses w i th quotas Other non tar iff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1002 APPENDIX II Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses W i thout quotas W i th quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Adm in i s t ra t ive expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Prof i t /d iv idends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 1003 Amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Fam i ly ma in tenance /a l imony Prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1004 APPENDIX II Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue-locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective inves tment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II iocs Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct inves tment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locairy by nonresidents Controls on personal capital movements Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents G i f ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlements of debts abroad by imm ig ran ts Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1006 APPENDIX II Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Inves tment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Provisions specific to institutional investors L im i ts (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents and on por tfo l io invested abroad L im i ts (max.) on portfolio invested abroad L im i ts (m in .) on portfolio invested locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other restrictions imposed by securi- ties laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 1997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX II 1007 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct inves tment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangements Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins t rumen ts Controls on der iva t ives and other in s t rumen ts Controls on credit operations Changes During 1998 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1008 APPENDIX II Controls on direct inve s tment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital movements Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Prov is ions specific to in s t i tu t ional inves tors Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 