 Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 2014 I n t e r n a t i o n a l M o n e t a r y F u n d ©2014 International Monetary Fund Cataloging-in-Publication Data Joint Bank-Fund Library Assessing macroprudential policies in a financial stability framework. – Washington, D.C. : International Monetary Fund, 2014. p. ; cm. Special topic of the Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, 2014 issue. Includes bibliographical references. ISBN: 978-1-49830-409-2 (Print) ISBN: 978-1-49832-332-1 (PDF) ISBN: 978-1-49833-517-1 (ePub) ISBN: 978-1-49835-953-5 (Mobi) 1. Financial institutions – State supervision. 2. Financial crises - Prevention. I. International Monetary Fund. HG173.A87 2014 ISSN (Online) 2304-0831 ISSN (Print) 0250-7366 Disclaimer: The analysis and policy considerations expressed in this publication are those of the IMF staff and do not represent official IMF policy or the views of the IMF Executive Directors or their national authorities. Recommended citation: International Monetary Fund, Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions (Washington, October 2014). Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services P.O. Box 92780, Washington, D.C. 20090, U.S.A. Tel.: (202) 623-7430 Fax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org www.imfbookstore.org A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Contents Country Chapters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iv Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vi Abbreviations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vii Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 Table 1. Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Overall Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 Developments in Exchange Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4 Table 2. De Facto Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks, April 30, 2014 . . . . . . . . 5 Table 3. Exchange Rate Arrangements, 2008–14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Table 4. Changes and Resulting Reclassifications of Exchange Rate Arrangements, January 1, 2013–April 30, 2014 . . . . . . . . . 8 Table 5. Monetary Policy Frameworks and Exchange Rate Anchors, 2008–14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Table 6. Changes in Exchange Rate Arrangements, Official Exchange Rate, and Monetary Policy Framework, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Table 7. Foreign Exchange Market Structure, 2011–14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Table 8.a. Changes in Foreign Exchange Markets, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Table 8.b. Changes in Currency and Exchange Rate Structures, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Table 8.c. Changes in Exchange Subsidies and Exchange Taxes, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Member Countries’ Obligations and Status under Articles VIII and XIV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31 Figure 1. IMF Members That Have Accepted the Obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2(a), 3, and 4, 1945–2013 . . . . . . . . 32 Table 9. Exchange Restrictions and Multiple Currency Practices, January 1–December 31, 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Table 10. Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices by Country, as of December 31, 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Regulatory Framework for Foreign Exchange Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40 Table 11. Provisions Specific to the Financial Sector, January 2013–July 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Special Topic: Capital Flows: Dynamics, Evolution, and Policy Advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55 Compilation Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80 Country Table Matrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 iii A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Country Chapters1 Afghanistan Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan The Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of Congo Costa Rica Côte d’Ivoire Croatia CuraÇao and Sint Maarten Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong SAR Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Islamic Republic of Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kosovo Kuwait 1 These chapters are available on AREAER Online (www.elibrary-areaer.imf.org/). The term “country,” as used in this publica- tion, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. iv International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Kyrgyz Republic Lao P.D.R. Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Lithuania Luxembourg Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 v A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Preface The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official staff visits to member countries, and has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Capital Markets Department by a staff team directed by Karl F. Habermeier and comprising Chikako Baba, Ricardo Cervantes, Salim Darbar, Ivett Jamborne Hankoczy, Annamaria Kokenyne, and Viktoriya Zotova. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF’s five area departments, together with staff of other departments. The Special Topic was prepared by Viktoriya Zotova. The report was edited and produced by Linda Griffin Kean, Gregg Forte, and Lucy Scott Morales of the Communications Department. vi International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Abbreviations ASEAN–Australia–New Zealand Free Trade Agreement Asian Clearing Union (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka) Authorized dealer ASEAN Free Trade Area (see ASEAN, below) African Growth and Opportunity Act (United States) Asian monetary unit Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao P.D.R., Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam) Central Bank of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea- Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo) Bank of Central African States (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon) Central American Common Market (Belize, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua) Central American Free Trade Agreement Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Community and Common Market (Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago); The Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market Central bank Central European Free Trade Area (Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia) Central African Economic and Monetary Community (members of the BEAC) Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda) Common external tariff Communauté financière d’Afrique (administered by the BCEAO) and Coopération financière en Afrique centrale (administered by the BEAC) Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Commonwealth of Independent States (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan) Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora Common Monetary Area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved; formerly Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., Vietnam) AANZFTA ACU AD AFTA AGOA AMU ASEAN BCEAO BEAC CACM CAFTA CAP CARICOM CB CEFTA CEMAC CEPGL CET CFA CIMA Code CIS CITES CMA CMEA Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 vii A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 COMESA EAC EBRD EC ECB ECCB ECCU ECOWAS ECSC EEA EFSF EFSM EFTA EIB EMU EPZ ERM EU FATF FDI FEC FSU G7 GAFTA GCC GSP IBRD IMF LAIA LC LIBID Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe) East African Community European Bank for Reconstruction and Development European Council (Council of the European Union) European Central Bank Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Eastern Caribbean Currency Union Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo) European Coal and Steel Community European Economic Area European Financial Stability Facility European Financial Stability Mechanism European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland) European Investment Bank European Economic and Monetary Union (Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain) Export processing zone Exchange rate mechanism (of the European monetary system) European Union (formerly European Community; Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom) Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (of the OECD) Foreign direct investment Foreign exchange certificate Former Soviet Union Group of Seven advanced economies (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, United States) Greater Arab Free Trade Agreement Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf; Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Monetary Fund Latin American Integration Association (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela) Letter of credit London interbank bid rate viii International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 London interbank offered rate Southern Cone Common Market (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela) Most favored nation Ministry of finance North American Free Trade Agreement Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Over the counter Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (of the Pacific Islands Forum; Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu) Pacific Island Countries Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum); Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu) Regional Council on Public Savings and Financial Markets (an institution of WAEMU countries that is involved in issuance and marketing of securities) Regional Integration Facilitation Forum (formerly Cross-Border Initiative; Burundi, Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe) Southern African Customs Union (Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Community (Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe) Special drawing rights Undertakings for the Collective Investment of Transferable Securities Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon) United Nations UN Security Council Value-added tax West African Economic and Monetary Union (formerly WAMU; members of the BCEAO) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) West African Monetary Zone Exchange rate mechanism (of the WAMZ) World Trade Organization LIBOR MERCOSUR MFN MOF NAFTA OECD OECS OGL OTC PACER PICTA RCPSFM RIFF SACU SADC SDRs UCITS UDEAC UN UNSC VAT WAEMU WAMA WAMZ W-ERM II WTO International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 ix A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Overview This is the 65th issue of the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions (AREAER), which provides a yearly description of the foreign exchange arrangements, exchange and trade systems, and capital con- trols of all IMF member countries.1 The AREAER reports on restrictions in effect under Article XIV, Section 2, of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement in accordance with Section 3 of Article XIV, which mandates annual reports on such restrictions.2 It also provides information related to Paragraph 25 of the 2012 Integrated Surveillance Decision, which restates the obligation of each member country under the IMF’s Articles of Agreement to notify the IMF of the exchange arrangement it intends to apply and any changes in that arrangement.3 The AREAER goes beyond these, however, to provide a comprehensive description of global exchange and trade systems. It describes restrictions on current international payments and transfers and multiple currency practices (MCPs) maintained under Article XIV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement as well as those subject to the IMF’s jurisdiction in accordance with Article VIII, Sections 2(a) and 3.4 The report also provides information on the operation of foreign exchange markets, controls on international trade, controls on capital transactions, and measures implemented in the financial sector, including prudential measures. In addition, the AREAER reports on exchange measures imposed by member countries for security reasons, including those notified to the IMF in accordance with relevant decisions by the IMF Executive Board.5 The AREAER also provides detailed information on the exchange rate arrangements of member countries: the de jure arrangements as described by the countries and the de facto exchange rate arrangements, which are classified into 10 categories (Table 1). This classification is based on the information available on members’ de facto arrangements, as analyzed by the IMF staff, which may differ from countries’ officially announced (de jure) arrangements. The methodology and the characteristics of the categories are described in the Compilation Guide included in this report. Table 1. Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements Type Hard pegs Soft pegs Categories Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Conventional peg Floating regimes (market- determined rates) Residual Floating Other managed arrangement Currency board arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Free floating Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Note: This methodology became effective on February 2, 2009, and reflects an attempt to provide greater consistency and objectivity of exchange rate classifications across countries and to improve the transparency of the IMF’s bilateral and multilateral surveillance in this area. 1 In addition to the 188 IMF member countries, the report includes information on Hong Kong SAR (China) as well as Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands). 2 The IMF Articles of Agreement are available at www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/aa/index.htm. 3 www.imf.org/external/np/sec/pn/2012/pn1289.htm. 4 The information on restrictions and MCPs consists of verbatim quotes from each country’s most recent published IMF staff report as of December 31, 2013, and represents the views of the IMF staff, which may not necessarily have been endorsed by the IMF Executive Board. In cases in which the information is drawn from IMF staff reports that have not been made public, the quotes have been included with the express consent of the member country. In the absence of such consent, the relevant information is reported as “not publicly available.” Any changes to these restrictions and MCPs implemented after the relevant IMF report has been issued will be reflected in the subsequent issue of the AREAER that covers the year during which the IMF staff report with information on such changes is issued. 5 The information on exchange measures imposed for security reasons is based solely on information provided by country authorities. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Several tools help navigate and interpret the findings of this report. A single table compares the charac- teristics of the exchange and trade systems of all IMF member countries: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries. The Country Table Matrix lists the categories of data reported for each country, and the Compilation Guide includes definitions and explanations used to report the data. The AREAER is available in several formats. This Overview is available in print and online, and the detailed information for each of the 191 member countries and territories is included on a CD that accompanies the printed Overview and is in the AREAER Online database. In addition, the AREAER Online contains data published in previous issues of the AREAER and is searchable by year, country, and category of measure and allows cross-country comparisons for time series.6 Overall Developments In general, the AREAER includes a description of exchange and trade systems as of December 31, 2013. However, any changes made to member countries’ exchange rate arrangements before April 30, 2014, are reflected in the report as are some other developments through July 30, 2014.7 During this period, there was additional foreign exchange liberalization accompanied by continuing efforts to bolster financial sector regula- tory frameworks against a backdrop of the slow global emergence from the Great Recession and heightened capital flow volatility. Global activity strengthened in the second half of 2013, driven primarily by recovery in the advanced economies, while macroeconomic imbalances increased in some emerging market economies. Nonetheless, the global recovery remained fragile, and new geopolitical risks emerged. After a prolonged period of strong portfolio inflows, emerging markets faced both a transition to more volatile external conditions and higher risk premiums. These economies were profoundly affected by market reactions to the anticipated discontinuation by the United States of the extraordinary monetary policies implemented to spur growth in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. When the Federal Reserve signaled steps toward normalizing monetary policy in May 2013, investors withdrew from emerging market economies, causing their exchange rates to depreciate and their interest rates to rise sharply. After this broad-based initial reaction, investors began to differentiate more among economies, focusing on those with large external financing needs or other macroeconomic imbalances. In mid-January 2014 there was another, smaller outbreak of turmoil. This renewed increase in financial volatility highlights the challenges for emerging market economies posed by the changing external environment. Countries with relative weaknesses such as higher inflation or wider current account deficits were generally more affected. Although such weaknesses are not new, prospects of improved returns in advanced economies have made investor sentiment less favorable toward emerging mar- ket risks. On a global basis, improved market conditions allowed a return to more stable exchange rate regimes and facilitated the easing of controls on current and capital transactions, but concerns about capital flow volatil- ity may be the motivation behind the tightening of capital controls and the imposition of restrictions that occurred in some countries. There were also additional reforms in the financial sector regulatory framework, part of broader steps to address legacy risks from the global financial crisis. In particular, the euro area moved toward a more robust and safer financial sector, and stronger regulatory standards for the global banking system were phased in. The 2014 AREAER documents the following major trends and significant developments: • Exchange rate arrangements continued gravitating toward more stable arrangements amid the slow recovery of both global growth and global financial conditions. There was a decline in the residual category (other managed arrangements) over the past two years, with a simultaneous increase in the number of countries 6 For further information on these resources, see www.imf.org/external/publications/index.htm, www.imfbookstore.org, or www.elibrary-areaer.imf.org/ 7 The date of the latest reported development is indicated for each country in the country chapters. 2 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 with a soft peg, and an overall shift away from flexible arrangements. This is likely a reflection of recurring pressure on the currencies of emerging market economies as a result of capital flow volatility, which may have contributed to increased exchange rate management. • Fewer than half of member countries now use the exchange rate as the anchor for monetary policy, continu- ing the trend toward monitoring multiple indicators. The U.S. dollar remained the dominant exchange rate anchor, although the number of countries anchoring continued to decline. • Exchange rate intervention again increased in emerging market economies, as during 2012, reflecting the bouts of exchange market pressure caused by heightened capital flow volatility. The major advanced econo- mies reported no foreign exchange interventions. There was continued use of foreign exchange auctions as a tool for managing foreign reserves and as a vehicle for foreign exchange interventions. Such auctions are often used in less-developed foreign exchange markets because they are transparent, and this was again the case during this past year. • Foreign exchange market structures continued to modernize, and market-based arrangements increased, leaving fewer countries with foreign exchange standing facilities and allocation systems. Countries over- whelmingly tightened taxes on foreign exchange transactions as part of broader efforts to increase tax revenues, reduce dollarization, contain the profitability of the private financial sector, or address pressures on exchange rates. • The number of IMF member countries accepting the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2(a), 3, and 4, remained 168, with no new acceptances. Twenty IMF members avail themselves of the transitional arrange- ment under Article XIV. • Member countries moved toward greater current account openness. Regulatory conditions for import transactions and payments for invisibles mostly eased, but the recent trend toward liberalization reversed during this reporting period with respect to exports and export proceeds. A number of restrictive measures were eliminated, but the total number of exchange restrictions on current payments and transfers increased, particularly with respect to payments for invisible transactions, in response to balance of payments pres- sures. The overall increase in exchange restrictions on current payments and transfers also reflects improved reporting by members. • The trend toward greater overall liberalization of capital transactions continued. Easing measures pre- dominated for both inflows and outflows, despite an increase in the total number of measures reported in 2013. Most measures affected capital and money market instruments and were aimed at easing outflows more than inflows, as was the case during 2012. This trend may reflect further globalization, the financial deepening of emerging markets, and the greater share of portfolio flows in total capital flows to emerging markets, particularly since the financial crisis, as investors search for yield. Tightening measures on out- flows included those designed to shore up reserves and ease pressure on the domestic exchange market. The liberalization trend was also pronounced in foreign direct investment, which began to moderate with the decline in global commodity prices. • Developments in the financial sector reflect ongoing efforts to bolster the regulatory framework and implement reforms while easing or removing capital controls on the operations of market participants. Member countries continued to strengthen the prudential framework of banks’ operations to address the legacy of the global financial crisis. Capital controls were eased as part of broader capital flow liberaliza- tion plans in some countries. In some emerging market economies, this was a regulatory response to bouts of capital flow volatility during the reporting period, and in other countries it was part of broader reforms to develop the financial sector. Prudential requirements were revised in many countries to enhance the liquidity, solvency, and risk management of the financial sector and facilitate banks’ recov- ery. Reserve requirements were used extensively to implement monetary policy, reduce dollarization, or respond to changes in capital flows. The remainder of this Overview highlights the major developments covered in the individual country chap- ters that are part of this report (these country chapters are on the CD that accompanies the printed version of the Overview and are available through AREAER Online). International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 3 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Developments in Exchange Arrangements This section documents major changes and trends in the following related areas: exchange rate arrangements, intervention, monetary anchors, and the operation and structure of foreign exchange markets. It also reports on significant developments with respect to exchange taxes, exchange rate structures, and national currencies. There are nine tables within this section. Table 2 summarizes the detailed descriptions in the country chapters by reporting each IMF member country’s monetary policy framework as indicated by country officials and the classification of their de facto exchange rate arrangements. Table 3 breaks down countries’ de facto exchange rate arrangements for 2008–14. Table 4 highlights changes in the reclassification of the de facto exchange rate arrangements between January 1, 2013, and April 30, 2014. Table 5 outlines IMF member countries’ monetary anchors, and Table 6 reports other changes related to the exchange rate and monetary policy frameworks. Table 7 presents the structure of the foreign exchange markets among the membership. Finally, Table 8.a reports changes regarding foreign exchange markets, and Tables 8.b and 8.c report changes in currency and exchange rate structures and exchange subsidies and taxes, respectively. Exchange Rate Arrangements • Other managed arrangements. There was a slight decline during 2013 in the number of countries following an exchange rate arrangement classified in this residual category, against the backdrop of a shift toward more predictable exchange rate management since 2009. The number of countries in this category decreased to its lowest level since 2011. This exchange rate arrangement is characteristic of periods during which volatile foreign exchange market conditions hinder the use of more clearly defined exchange rate arrangements. Its use has diminished with the slow recovery of global growth and the slow improvement of financial conditions since the worst of the global financial crisis. Although the number of other managed arrangements declined only by 1 to 18, there were 13 changes in the reporting period. Six countries joined this group: Cambodia (previously stabilized), Costa Rica (previously stabilized), Czech Republic (previously free floating), The Gambia (previously floating), Pakistan (previously floating), and Rwanda (previously crawl like). Of the 7 countries that left this group, 2 (Malawi and Paraguay) meet the criteria for a floating arrangement, 3 moved to a stabilized arrangement (Bangladesh, Burundi, Guinea), and 2 were classified as having a crawl-like arrangement (Belarus and Switzerland). • No separate legal tender; currency boards. There were no changes among the countries that have no separate legal tender or have currency boards. This is not surprising given that countries with these arrangements tend to maintain their exchange rate policies unless there are large structural changes in their economies that force a change. • Soft pegs. Recurring pressures on the currencies of many emerging market economies as a result of capital flow volatility may have contributed to an overall shift toward increased exchange rate management since 2008. A few of the member countries that had previously used a soft peg stopped doing so between April 2011 and April 2012, but the number of soft pegs increased again between April 2013 and April 2014, reaching its highest level since 2008 (Table 3). Countries with soft pegs represent the single largest exchange rate arrangement category—equal to the combined number of floating and other managed arrange- ments and accounting for 43.5 percent of all members. • Conventional pegs. The number of countries with a conventional peg arrangement declined by 1, to 44, when Latvia adopted the euro on January 1, 2014, and its exchange rate arrangement changed from a conventional peg to de jure free floating. Latvia is the 18th member of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). • Stabilized arrangements. The number of countries with stabilized arrangements increased from 19 to 21. There were 12 changes in this category between April 2013 and April 2014, and most of this movement involved other soft pegs. One coun- try moved to a stabilized arrangement from floating (Sri Lanka), and 1 moved from stabilized to floating (Georgia). Six other countries joined this group: 3 previously classified as crawl like (Egypt, Kazakhstan, Singapore) and 3 previously classified as other managed (Bangladesh, Burundi, Guinea). Two countries (Costa Rica, Georgia) returned to their exchange rate arrange- ment in the previous reporting period—other managed arrangement and floating, respectively. The other 3 countries that left the stabilized arrangement moved to a crawl-like arrangement (Lao P.D.R.), other managed arrangement (Cambodia), and floating arrangement (Ukraine). The large number of changes involving other soft pegs may reflect the tendency of countries with such arrangements to change the way they manage their exchange rate in response to events in the external environment, including differences in inflation across countries, capital flow pressures, and new trends in world trade. • Crawl-like arrangements. The number of countries with these arrangements remained at 15, unchanged from the previ- ous reporting period, but 5 countries moved into this category, while 5 left it. The number of crawl-like arrangements has increased significantly since 2008, which may reflect increased interventions in response to one-sided exchange rate pressure 4 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 or the unintentional outcome of foreign exchange reserve management in a shallow market. One country, Seychelles, main- tained a crawl-like arrangement temporarily but then returned to its previous arrangement (floating). The other 4 that were classified as crawl-like arrangements are Lao P.D.R. (previously stabilized), Armenia and Guatemala (previously floating), and Switzerland (previously other managed). Of the 5 countries that left this group, 2 (Kazakhstan and Singapore) moved to a stabilized arrangement, 1 (Rwanda) moved to other managed, and 2 reverted to their arrangement in the previous reporting period: stabilized (Egypt) and floating (Indonesia). • Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. Only Tonga has this arrangement. Two additional countries have de jure pegged exchange rates within horizontal bands, but 1 has a de facto stabilized arrangement (Maldives) and the other a de facto other managed arrangement (Syria). • Floating arrangements. The number of countries with floating arrangements increased by 1 to 36, and there were also 13 changes in the composition of the group. Seven countries entered this category. Two of these (Georgia, Ukraine) previously had stabilized arrangements; 2 (Indonesia, Seychelles) previously had crawl-like arrangements; 2 (Malawi, Paraguay) previ- ously had other managed arrangements; and 1 (Israel) previously had a floating arrangement. Six countries left this category: 3 (Armenia, Guatemala, Seychelles—temporarily) moved to crawl-like arrangements; 2 (The Gambia, Pakistan) moved to other managed arrangements; and 1 (Sri Lanka) was reclassified to a stabilized arrangement. • Free floating. The number of countries with free-floating arrangements declined by 1, to 29. There were 3 changes in this group: 2 countries (Israel, Czech Republic) were reclassified as floating and other managed, respectively, and Latvia (previously conventional peg) was reclassified as free floating when it joined the EMU. The reclassification of the exchange rate arrange- ments of Israel and the Czech Republic is a reflection of increased intervention. Israel announced a multiyear foreign exchange purchase plan to offset the effect of natural gas production on the exchange rate to complement its discretionary interven- tions. With inflation below target and continued undershooting expected, the Czech National Bank announced November 7, 2013, that it would intervene in the foreign exchange market to weaken the koruna so that the exchange rate against the euro remained close to CZK 27 per euro. The target is asymmetric: the Czech National Bank will not intervene to strengthen the currency toward that level. Table 2. De Facto Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks, April 30, 2014 The classification system is based on the members’ actual, de facto arrangements as identified by IMF staff, which may differ from their officially announced, de jure arrangements. The system classifies exchange rate arrangements primarily on the basis of the degree to which the exchange rate is determined by the market rather than by official action, with market-determined rates being on the whole more flexible. The system distinguishes between four major categories: hard pegs (such as exchange arrangements with no separate legal tender and currency board arrangements); soft pegs (including conventional pegged arrangements, pegged exchange rates within horizontal bands, crawling pegs, stabilized arrangements, and crawl-like arrangements); floating regimes (such as floating and free floating); and a residual category, other managed. This table presents members’ exchange rate arrangements against alternative monetary policy frameworks to highlight the role of the exchange rate in broad economic policy and illustrate that different exchange rate regimes can be consistent with similar monetary frameworks. The monetary policy frameworks are as follows: Exchange rate anchor The monetary authority buys or sells foreign exchange to maintain the exchange rate at its predetermined level or within a range. The exchange rate thus serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. These frameworks are associated with exchange rate arrangements with no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, pegs (or sta- bilized arrangements) with or without bands, crawling pegs (or crawl-like arrangements), and other managed arrangements. Monetary aggregate target The monetary authority uses its instruments to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate, such as reserve money, M1, or M2, and the targeted aggregate becomes the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation-targeting framework This involves the public announcement of numerical targets for infla- tion, with an institutional commitment by the monetary authority to achieve these targets, typically over a medium-term horizon. Additional key features normally include increased communication with the public and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary policymak- ers and increased accountability of the central bank for achieving its inflation objectives. Monetary policy decisions are often guided by the deviation of forecasts of future inflation from the announced inflation target, with the inflation forecast acting (implicitly or explicitly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. Other The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This category is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 5 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 2 (continued) Monetary Policy Framework Exchange rate anchor Euro (26) Kosovo Montenegro San Marino Composite (12) Other (8) Kiribati Tuvalu Monetary aggregate target (25) Inflation- targeting framework (34) Other1 (43) Lithuania2 Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Brunei Darussalam Senegal Togo CEMAC Cameroon Central African Rep. Chad Rep. of Congo Equatorial Guinea Gabon Cabo Verde Comoros Denmark2 São Tomé and Príncipe WAEMU Benin Burkina Faso Côte d’Ivoire Guinea-Bissau Mali Niger FYR Macedonia Fiji Kuwait Libya Morocco3 Samoa Bhutan Lesotho Namibia Nepal Swaziland Singapore Vietnam5 Botswana Tonga Bangladesh5 (02/13) Burundi5 (03/13) Democratic Rep. of the Congo5 Guinea5 (08/13) Sri Lanka5 (10/13) Tajikistan5 Yemen5 China5 Ethiopia5 Uzbekistan5 Solomon Islands4 Angola5 Azerbaijan5 Bolivia5 Egypt5 (07/13) Armenia5 (03/13) Dominican Republic5 Guatemala5,6 (11/12) Argentina5 Belarus5,6 (09/12) Haiti5 Lao P.D.R.5 Switzerland7 (05/13) Tunisia4,8 Exchange rate arrangement (number of countries) No separate legal tender (13) Currency board (12) Conventional peg (44) U.S. dollar (43) Palau Panama Timor-Leste Zimbabwe St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Jordan Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia South Sudan Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Venezuela Ecuador El Salvador Marshall Islands Micronesia Djibouti Hong Kong SAR ECCU Antigua and Barbuda Dominica Grenada Aruba The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belize Curaçao and Sint Maarten Eritrea Stabilized arrangement (21) Guyana Iraq Kazakhstan (02/14) Lebanon Maldives Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Crawling peg (2) Crawl-like arrangement (15) Nicaragua Honduras Jamaica Croatia Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands (1) 6 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 2 (concluded) Exchange rate arrangement (number of countries) Other managed arrangement (18) U.S. dollar (43) Cambodia (7/13) Liberia Monetary Policy Framework Exchange rate anchor Euro (26) Other (8) Composite (12) Algeria Iran Syria Inflation- targeting framework (34) Czech Rep. (11/13) Monetary aggregate target (25) The Gambia Myanmar Nigeria Rwanda Floating (36) Free floating (29) Afghanistan Kenya Madagascar Malawi6 (05/12) Mozambique Papua New Guinea Seychelles9 (03/14) Sierra Leone Tanzania Ukraine (02/14) Uruguay Albania Brazil Colombia Georgia (11/13) Ghana Hungary Iceland Indonesia (08/13) Israel (05/13) Korea Moldova New Zealand Paraguay (07/13) Peru Philippines Romania Serbia South Africa Thailand Turkey Uganda6 Australia Canada Chile Japan Mexico Norway Poland Sweden United Kingdom Other1 (43) Costa Rica (08/13) Kyrgyz Rep. Malaysia Mauritania Pakistan (12/13) Russia8 Sudan Vanuatu6 India Mauritius Mongolia Zambia Somalia United States EMU Austria Belgium Cyprus Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Latvia (01/14) Luxembourg Malta Netherlands Portugal Slovak Rep. Slovenia Spain International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 7 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Source: IMF staff. Note: If the member country’s de facto exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified during the reporting period, the date of change is indi- cated in parentheses. CEMAC = Central African Economic and Monetary Community; ECCU = Eastern Caribbean Currency Union; EMU = European Economic and Monetary Union; WAEMU = West African Economic and Monetary Union. 1 Includes countries that have no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitor various indicators in conducting monetary policy. 2 The member participates in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM II). 3 Within the framework of an exchange rate fixed to a currency composite, the Bank Al-Maghrib adopted a monetary policy framework in 2006 based on various inflation indicators with the overnight interest rate as its operational target to pursue its main objective of price stability. 4 The country maintains a de facto exchange rate anchor to a composite. 5 The country maintains a de facto exchange rate anchor to the U.S. dollar. 6 The exchange rate arrangement or monetary policy framework was reclassified retroactively, overriding a previously published classification. 7 The country maintains a de facto exchange rate anchor to the euro. 8 The central bank has taken preliminary steps toward inflation targeting. 9 The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified twice during this reporting period, reverting back to the classification in the previous year’s report. Table 3. Exchange Rate Arrangements, 2008–14 (Percent of IMF members as of April 30)1 Exchange Rate Arrangement Hard peg No separate legal tender Currency board Soft peg Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Floating Floating Free floating Residual Other managed arrangement 20082 12.2 5.3 6.9 39.9 22.3 12.8 2.7 1.1 1.1 39.9 20.2 19.7 20093 12.2 5.3 6.9 34.6 22.3 6.9 2.7 0.5 2.1 42.0 24.5 17.6 20104 13.2 6.3 6.9 39.7 23.3 12.7 1.6 1.1 1.1 36.0 20.1 15.9 20115 13.2 6.8 6.3 43.2 22.6 12.1 1.6 6.3 0.5 34.7 18.9 15.8 20125 13.2 6.8 6.3 39.5 22.6 8.4 1.6 6.3 0.5 34.7 18.4 16.3 2013 13.1 6.8 6.3 42.9 23.6 9.9 1.0 7.9 0.5 34.0 18.3 15.7 2014 13.1 6.8 6.3 43.5 23.0 11.0 1.0 7.9 0.5 34.0 18.8 15.2 8.0 11.2 11.1 8.9 12.6 9.9 9.4 Source: AREAER database. 1 Includes 188 member countries and 3 territories: Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and Hong Kong SAR (China). 2 As retroactively classified February 2, 2009; does not include Kosovo, Tuvalu, and South Sudan, which became IMF members on June 29, 2009, June 24, 2010, and April 18, 2012, respectively. 3 As published in the 2009 AREAER; does not include Kosovo, Tuvalu, and South Sudan, which became IMF members on June 29, 2009, June 24, 2010, and April 18, 2012, respectively. 4 As published in the 2010 AREAER; does not include Tuvalu and South Sudan, which became IMF members on June 24, 2010, and April 18, 2012, respectively. 5 As published in the 2011 and 2012 AREAERs; does not include South Sudan, which became an IMF member on April 18, 2012. Table 4. Changes and Resulting Reclassifications of Exchange Rate Arrangements, January 1, 2013–April 30, 2014 Country Armenia Bangladesh Change Since March 2013, the dram has appreciated within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar. Thus, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from floating to a crawl- like arrangement, effective March 12, 2013. Beginning in December 2012, the taka followed an appreciating trend for three months as a result of increased foreign exchange inflows and stabilized afterward within a 2% band. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from other managed to a stabilized arrangement, effective February 7, 2013. 8 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Previous Arrangement1 Floating Arrangement in the 2014 AREAER Crawl-like arrangement Other managed Stabilized arrangement A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 4 (continued) Country Belarus2 Burundi Cambodia Costa Rica Change Starting with the last quarter of 2012, the Belarusian rubel followed a depreciating trend within a 2% band. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was retroactively reclassified from other managed to a crawl-like arrangement, effective September 19, 2012. This change is reflected as of January 1, 2013, corresponding to the first day of the period covered in this year’s AREAER. Because the Burundi franc has stabilized within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar since March 2013, the de facto exchange rate arrangement has been classified from other managed to stabilized arrangement, effective March 6, 2013. There were several marginal adjustments in the path of the riel–U.S. dollar exchange rate in 2013. The riel was stable until June, but then increased in volatility. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from stabilized to other managed arrangement, effective July 1, 2013. In 2013, the Central Bank of Costa Rica (BCCR) kept its commitment to maintain the band, in order to continue the gradual and orderly transition to a floating exchange rate. The band does not include a central parity. As of December 31, 2013, the intervention selling exchange rate reached C 812.05, indicating a band with a width of 62.4% with the lower bound as the basis. The average exchange rate for the U.S. dollar on the foreign currency market (MONEX) in 2013 stayed in the vicinity of the lower bound of the band, recording an annual average level of C 501.09, C 0.6 lower than the previous year. As a result, the local currency recorded a nominal appreciation of 1.0% (0.4% in 2012). Beginning January 29, 2014, in a national context of reduced foreign currency liquidity, the exchange rate increased rapidly, reaching maximums in the vicinity of C 570 per U.S. dollar in the second week of March. Nonetheless, the rate stabilized as of March 13, 2014, and between that date and April 30, 2014, the exchange rate recorded an average level of C 548.47. The excessive exchange rate volatility prompted the BCCR to intervene within the band, with the aim of preventing sharp fluctuations in the price of the U.S. dollar. Between January 29 and April 30, 2014, the BCCR carried out foreign exchange sales to stabilize the exchange rate for a cumulative sum of US$386.6 million. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to other managed from a stabilized arrangement, effective August 30, 2013. Czech Republic With inflation below target and continued undershooting expected, the Czech National Bank announced November 7, 2013, that it will intervene in the foreign exchange market to weaken the koruna so that the exchange rate against the euro is close to CZK 27. The target is asymmetric: the Czech National Bank will not intervene to strengthen the currency toward the level of CZK 27. The currency has traded between CZK 27.0 and CZK 27.7 since then. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from free floating to other managed, effective November 7, 2013. Since July 2013, the Egyptian pound has stabilized within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar. This trend continued through April 2014, which led to reclassification of the de facto exchange rate arrangement from crawl like to a stabilized arrangement, effective July 3, 2013. Egypt Previous Arrangement1 Other managed Arrangement in the 2014 AREAER Crawl-like arrangement Other managed Stabilized arrangement Stabilized arrangement Other managed Stabilized arrangement Other managed Free floating Other managed Crawl-like arrangement Stabilized arrangement International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 9 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 4 (continued) Country The Gambia Georgia Guatemala2 Guinea Indonesia Change Following a sharp depreciation of the dalasi against the U.S. dollar in 2012, the exchange rate was relatively stable during 2013 with some spikes and sharp realignments mostly due to presidential exchange rate directives that imposed overvalued exchange rates, issued in October 2012, June 2013, July 2013, and August 2013. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from floating to other managed, effective January 1, 2013. During January–September of 2013, the National Bank of Georgia’s net interventions amounted to US$555 million. Since October 2013, the lari depreciated by almost 7% against the U.S. dollar. At the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, the National Bank of Georgia sold US$440 million in order to curb speculation expectations in the market, but has not intervened since February 2014. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from a stabilized arrangement, effective November 6, 2013. From January 1, 2013, through December 31, 2013, the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) purchased $75.3 million (on eight occasions) and sold $26 million (on four occasions). During this period, the quetzal showed reduced volatility and remained within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar, with an appreciating trend between November 16, 2012, and mid-May 2013. It then followed a depreciating trend until October 28, 2013, after which it resumed an appreciating path until the end of the year. Market supply and demand play a role in determining the exchange rate, as does official action based on the observed path of the rate and the high volume of BOG participation in the foreign exchange auctions. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was retroactively reclassified from floating to a crawl-like arrangement. Intervention data are available on the BOG website. The change is reflected as of January 1, 2013, corresponding to the first day of the period covered in this year’s Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions. As the franc has shown reduced volatility and has remained within a 2% band against the U. S. dollar since August 2013, the de facto exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to stabilized from other managed arrangement, effective August 26, 2013. From early 2012 to mid-2013, the rupiah steadily weakened against the U.S. dollar, as Indonesia’s current account balance shifted into a deficit. However, Bank Indonesia used a combination of actual and verbal interventions to temper excessive volatility in the exchange rate. Since August 2013, the rupiah has moved more freely. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from a crawl-like arrangement, effective August 19, 2013. Previous Arrangement1 Floating Arrangement in the 2014 AREAER Other managed Stabilized arrangement Floating Floating Crawl-like arrangement Other managed Stabilized arrangement Crawl-like arrangement Floating 10 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 4 (continued) Country Israel Kazakhstan Lao P.D.R. Malawi Pakistan Papua New Guinea Change The Bank of Israel (BOI) announced a multiyear foreign exchange purchase plan to offset the effect of natural gas production on the exchange rate. The total amount to be purchased as part of this plan in 2013 was announced to be about $2.1 billion. The BOI’s assessments of the overall effect on the balance of payments resulting from natural gas production and foreign exchange purchases will be updated from time to time and published. On October 2, 2013, the BOI announced that it will purchase $3.5 billion in 2014 to offset the effect of natural gas production on the exchange rate. The BOI purchased $5.3 billion in the foreign exchange market during 2013, of which $2.1 billion was part of the purchase plan to offset the effect of natural gas production on the exchange rate and the rest was under the foreign exchange policy announced in August 2009. The BOI does not publish the daily purchases. Since May 2013 the BOI has intervened more than three times in a six-month period, so the new Israeli shekel’s de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from a free-floating exchange rate arrangement, effective May 13, 2013. Since February 2014 (following an 18% devaluation against the U.S. dollar), the tenge has stabilized within a (roughly) 1½% band against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate was reclassified to a stabilized from a crawl-like arrangement, effective February 11, 2014. During the first quarter of 2013, the kip appreciated rapidly, reaching its lowest point in April at 7,615 kip per U.S. dollar, followed by a depreciating trend within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from stabilized to a crawl-like arrangement, effective January 1, 2013. Since May 2012, the Reserve Bank of Malawi has not set a target rate and allowed substantial volatility in the exchange rate, including recent depreciation to around MK 435 per U.S. dollar by early January 2014. Official actions continue to play a role in influencing the exchange rate, but the exchange rate movements are largely market determined. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from other managed arrangement, effective January 1, 2013. The Pakistani rupee started to appreciate rapidly in December 2013, followed by short periods of stability with one step realignment in March 2014. Due to the limited volatility with periods of divergence, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to other managed from a floating arrangement, effective December 5, 2013. In January 2013, the exchange rate departed from the stabilized band and has since shown increased flexibility. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from a stabilized arrangement, effective January 1, 2013. Previous Arrangement1 Free floating Arrangement in the 2014 AREAER Floating Crawl-like arrangement Stabilized arrangement Stabilized arrangement Crawl-like arrangement Other managed Floating Floating Other managed Stabilized arrangement Floating International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 11 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Previous Arrangement1 Other managed Arrangement in the 2014 AREAER Floating Crawl-like arrangement Other managed Floating Crawl-like arrangement Floating Crawl-like arrangement Stabilized arrangement Floating Other managed Stabilized arrangement Crawl-like arrangement Stabilized arrangement Floating Table 4 (concluded) Country Paraguay Rwanda Seychelles Seychelles3 Singapore Sri Lanka Switzerland Ukraine Change The Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) implemented a program of preannounced sales of the U.S. dollars it purchases from the government. This program is more transparent, better communicated, and more consistent with an inflation-targeting regime. It indicates in advance the nature, frequency, and size of the CBP’s foreign exchange transactions to avoid influencing market expectations of the exchange rate. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from other managed arrangement, effective July 1, 2013. In 2013, the franc continued to follow a depreciating trend against the U.S. dollar with several short periods of stability. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from a crawl-like arrangement to other managed arrangement, effective January 1, 2013. Since mid-March 2013, the rupee depreciated within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar with one trend adjustment in July, 2013. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from floating to a crawl-like arrangement, effective March 12, 2013. Given that the rupee increased its volatility and departed from the 2% band against the U.S. dollar in April 2014, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from a crawl-like arrangement to floating, effective March 27, 2014. In 2013, Singapore dollar remained stable within a 2% band against a currency composite. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from a crawl- like arrangement to stabilized, effective January 1, 2013. Since October 2013, the Sri Lanka rupee has stabilized within a 2% band against the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to a stabilized from a floating arrangement, effective October 1, 2013. In 2013, the Swiss National Bank’s commitment to defending the minimum exchange rate remained unchanged. After a short period of volatility, the Swiss franc has followed an appreciating trend within a 2% band against the euro since May 31, 2013. Therefore, the de facto exchange rate was reclassified to a crawl-like arrangement from other managed, effective May 29, 2013. Between March 2010 and December 31, 2013, the hryvnia remained stable against the U.S. dollar within a 2% band, with a slight shift of the band in the second half of 2012. In January 2014, the market exchange rate began depreciating, despite National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) interventions. In February 2014, the NBU discontinued massive interventions in support of the hryvnia, adjusted its official hryvnia–U.S. dollar exchange rate broadly in line with the market exchange rate, and resumed the practice of setting the official exchange rate based on the weighted average rate for the foreign exchange transactions of the previous day. Accordingly, the de facto exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to floating from a stabilized arrangement, effective February 7, 2014. Source: AREAER database. 1 This column refers to the arrangements as reported in the 2012 AREAER, except in cases when a reclassification took place during January 1–April 30, 2013, in which case it refers to the arrangement preceding such a reclassification. 2 The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified retroactively, overriding a previously published classification for the entire reporting period or part of the period. 3 Cells in the column “Previous Arrangement” are blank if there was a subsequent reclassification during the reporting period. 12 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Monetary Anchors8 The exchange rate remained the anchor for monetary policy for fewer than half of member countries (Table 5). As in the previous reporting period, there were no significant changes in official monetary anchors.9 Only 3 changes were reported. Ethiopia abandoned the group of members using the U.S. dollar as a monetary anchor (43). Latvia joined the EMU and left the group of members anchored to the euro (26). Vanuatu was removed from the group of countries categorized as anchored to a composite (12) and recategorized retro- actively as pursuing another monetary policy framework—thereby overriding the categorization reported in previous AREAERs. The number of members anchored to another single currency (8) remained the same (see Table 2). Fifty-six member countries have an officially announced fixed exchange rate policy—either a currency board or a conventional peg—which implies the use of the exchange rate as the unique monetary anchor, with one exception. Although the official (de jure) exchange rate regime of the Solomon Islands is a peg against a bas- ket of currencies, the monetary policy framework was reported to comprise a mix of anchors, including the exchange rate. Among the 65 countries that have floating exchange rate arrangements—floating or free float- ing—the monetary anchor does not refer to the exchange rate and varies between monetary aggregates (11), inflation targeting (30), and other (24, including the 18 EMU countries). Fourteen countries implementing soft pegs and other managed arrangements target monetary aggregates. Countries with either stabilized or crawl-like arrangements (36) rely on a variety of monetary frameworks, including monetary aggregates and inflation-targeting frameworks. The Czech Republic is the only country classified as other managed arrange- ment with an inflation-targeting framework; the remaining other managed arrangements are split between monetary aggregate targets (4) and other monetary policy frameworks (8). • The share of IMF members with the exchange rate as the main policy target decreased from 48.2 percent to 46.6 percent. Countries with hard pegs or conventional pegs make up three-quarters of this group. Three currency unions—the Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC), the Eastern Caribbean Currency Union (ECCU), and the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)— have exchange rate anchors for their respective common currencies. However, these countries account for less than 20 percent of global output and world trade. Exchange rate anchors are by far the first choice of small, open economies, as suggested in the economic literature. • The U.S. dollar maintained its position as the dominant exchange rate anchor. The share of countries using the U.S. dollar as an exchange rate anchor decreased slightly to 22.5 percent due to a change in Ethiopia’s monetary policy framework to a monetary aggregate target. With this change, the share of countries using the U.S. dollar as an exchange rate anchor resumed its earlier steady decline, which stopped in the previous reporting period when South Sudan adopted a monetary framework with an exchange rate anchor to the U.S. dollar. Countries that continue to anchor to the dollar also include those with moderate trade relations with the United States. • The share of countries using an exchange rate anchor to the euro decreased to 13.6 percent when the currency of Latvia changed from the lats to the euro upon Latvia’s entry to the EMU in January 2014. Countries whose currencies are anchored to the euro generally have historical ties with European countries, such as the Communauté Financière d’Afrique (CFA) franc area countries, or strong trade relations with western Europe, including central and eastern European countries such as Bulgaria, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, and San Marino. • Twelve countries anchor their exchange rates to a currency composite. Three track the special drawing rights (SDRs) as the sole currency basket or as a component of a broader reference basket (Botswana, Libya, Syria). Morocco tracks a euro–U.S. dollar basket; Tonga tracks a composite that includes the Australian 8 Monetary anchors are defined as the main intermediate target the authorities pursue to achieve their policy goal, which, overwhelmingly, is price stability. The inventory of monetary anchors is based mainly on members’ declarations in the context of the yearly AREAER update or Article IV consultations. For the 2010 reporting year, country officials were asked for the first time to report specific information about the monetary policy framework, and as a result, the information provided by officials improved considerably. 9 The officially announced monetary anchor may differ from the anchor implemented in practice, as a result of the de facto exchange rate arrangement. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 13 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 and New Zealand dollars in combination with major global currencies (Japanese yen and U.S. dollar); and the remaining 5 countries do not disclose the composition of their reference currency baskets (Algeria, Fiji, Islamic Republic of Iran, Kuwait, Samoa, Singapore, Vietnam). • The number of countries with an exchange rate anchor to another single currency remained unchanged (8). Two of these countries (Kiribati, Tuvalu) use the Australian dollar as their legal currency, and 1 (Brunei Darussalam) has a currency board arrangement with the Singapore dollar. The remaining 5 have conven- tional pegged arrangements, 3 (Lesotho, Namibia, Swaziland) with the South African rand and 2 (Bhutan, Nepal) with the Indian rupee. Half the countries in this group are landlocked, bordering either partially or exclusively the country whose currency they use as their exchange rate anchor. Most IMF member countries, representing the overwhelming share of global output, are split among mon- etary aggregate targeting, inflation targeting, and other (which includes monetary policy not committed to a specific target). • The number of countries targeting a monetary aggregate declined from 26 in April 2013 to 25 in April 2014. This category does not include any country with a free-floating exchange rate arrangement. In fact, monetary aggregates are often the choice of economies with less-developed financial markets and man- aged exchange rates. The objective of the arrangement is to influence consumer prices and, eventually, asset prices through the control of monetary aggregates. Reserve money is often used as the operational target to control credit growth through the credit multiplier. During the past year, 3 countries switched from monetary aggregate targeting to “other monetary framework” (Argentina, Kyrgyz Republic, Zambia) and 1 country to inflation-targeting framework (Uganda). Three countries targeted a monetary aggregate: Ethiopia (previously anchored to the U.S. dollar), Myanmar (previously other monetary policy framework), and Uruguay (previously inflation-targeting framework). • The number of countries that directly target inflation remained unchanged at 34. Uruguay switched to using the trajectory of the monetary aggregate M1-plus as a monetary policy reference indicator, and Uganda was categorized as inflation-targeting framework retroactively from July 2011 (previously mon- etary aggregate target). The countries in this group are mostly middle income but include some advanced economies as well. Of these, 30 have either floating or free-floating exchange rate arrangements, a policy framework that requires considerable monetary policy credibility to make up for the loss of transparent intermediate targets.10 A few countries refer to their monetary framework as “inflation targeting light,” suggesting that they also consider indicators other than inflation. Russia and Uganda are in the transition stage to full-fledged inflation targeting.11 • Since 2008, the “other monetary policy framework” category has increased from 12 to 43, largely exceed- ing the 30 percent decline in countries anchored to the U.S. dollar and the 21 percent decline in countries targeting inflation. The number of countries that are not committed to a specific target (the “other” column in Table 2) increased by five in the reporting period. Argentina, Latvia, and Uruguay now report a multiple indicator approach to monetary policy. Myanmar left this group and adopted a monetary aggregate target framework. Vanuatu was categorized retroactively as “other” monetary policy framework after having been classified in previous AREAERs as anchored to a composite. This category includes many of the largest economies, such as the euro area and the United States, where the monetary authorities have sufficient credibility to implement the monetary framework without a specific monetary anchor. It is also used as a residual classification for countries for which no relevant information is available, and for those with alternative monetary policy frameworks not categorized in this report—for example, the Kyrgyz Republic, which switched to a monetary policy basis with interest rates as the target for developing and implementing monetary policy. 10 Inflation targeting aims to address the problem of exchange rates and monetary aggregates that do not have stable relation- ships with prices, making intermediate targets less suitable for inflation control. 11 The Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia) has taken preliminary steps toward a free-floating exchange rate regime. 14 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 5. Monetary Policy Frameworks and Exchange Rate Anchors, 2008–14 (Percent of IMF members as of April 30)1 20083 20093 20104 20115 20125 2013 2014 U.S. Dollar 33.0 28.7 26.5 25.3 22.6 23.0 22.5 Euro 14.4 14.4 14.8 14.2 14.2 14.1 13.6 Composite 8.0 7.4 7.9 7.4 6.8 6.8 6.3 Other Currency 3.7 4.3 3.7 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2 Monetary Aggregate 11.7 13.3 13.2 15.3 15.3 13.6 13.1 Inflation Targeting 22.9 15.4 16.4 16.3 16.8 17.8 17.8 Other2 6.4 16.5 17.5 17.4 20.0 20.4 22.5 Source: AREAER database. 1 Includes 188 member countries and 3 territories: Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and Hong Kong SAR (China). 2 Includes countries that have no explicitly stated nominal anchor but instead monitor various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This category is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. 3 Does not include Kosovo, Tuvalu, and South Sudan, which became IMF members on June 29, 2009, June 24, 2010, and April 18, 2012, respectively. 4 Does not include Tuvalu and South Sudan, which became IMF members on June 24, 2010, and April 18, 2012, respectively. 5 Does not include South Sudan, which became an IMF member on April 18, 2012. Foreign Exchange Interventions The IMF staff regularly assesses whether the frequency of foreign exchange intervention is consistent with de facto free-floating arrangements or determines whether a classification as a soft peg is appropriate (see the Compilation Guide).12 These assessments draw on information that is publicly available and also on information made available to the IMF through self-reporting, various market reports, significant changes in some members’ foreign exchange reserves, and other sources, including during official staff visits to member countries. This section summarizes developments in foreign exchange interventions since January 1, 2013, some of which are also depicted in Tables 6 and 8.a. Intervention Purpose A heterogeneous panorama emerges from official interventions over the past year. In major advanced econo- mies such as Japan and the euro area there was no reported intervention, but increased intervention was observed in smaller advanced economies and in emerging market economies. After intervening several times in 2011, Japan ceased its official foreign exchange activities in 2012. In contrast, New Zealand responded to heavy appreciation pressure by increasing its foreign exchange purchases during 2013. Israel intervened more than three times in a six-month period, and was no longer classified as free floating beginning in March 2013. The Czech Republic announced in November 2013 its intention to weaken the koruna to keep the exchange rate against the euro close to CZK 27 per euro. This measure aims to reach the inflation target in the face of a near-zero policy rate. Since then, the koruna has traded between 27.0 and 27.7 per euro. In some countries, exchange rate pressure reflects domestic conditions rather than the global environment. Georgia’s loose fiscal policy in the fourth quarter of 2013 contributed to lari depreciation, prompting the National Bank of Georgia to sell more than US$400 million in reserves. Faced with significant volatility against the backdrop of political protests, Turkey resumed its intraday foreign exchange selling auctions in June 2013 (see Table 8.a) after suspending the regular selling auctions in January 2012 and the intraday auc- tions in January 2013. In December 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey (CBRT) announced the general framework of the monetary and exchange rate policies envisaged for 2014. The CBRT may intervene directly or through flexible auctions in the market in both directions, in case of unhealthy price 12 Preannounced programs of purchases or sales of foreign exchange typically do not qualify as interventions because the design of these programs minimizes the impact on the exchange rate. Very small, retail-type transactions are also disregarded. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 15 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 formation due to speculative behavior stemming from a loss of market depth. In that case, the CBRT may buy or sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted by the banks directly. Leaning the other way, Israel announced in May 2013 a foreign exchange purchase plan (see Table 4) to offset the effect of natural gas production on the exchange rate, estimating total purchases to be about $2.1 billion by the end of 2013 within the framework of this plan. Intervention Techniques Turkey’s central bank introduced the reserve option mechanism as a new monetary policy tool while gradu- ally phasing out its foreign exchange auctions. In this framework, the central bank grants banks the option to hold a fraction of their mandatory reserves for Turkish lira liabilities in foreign currency and gold. The reserve option mechanism, which largely replaced auctions and bilateral interventions, has been used as an active policy tool by the central bank and may have contributed to stabilizing capital flow volatility, indirectly influencing exchange rate movements. However, Turkey had to resort to large foreign exchange auctions in June 2013 when faced with significant volatility. Russia eliminated its targeted foreign exchange interventions and widened its nonintervention band while reduc- ing the cumulative level of interventions necessary to move the exchange rate corridor, increasing the flexibility of the ruble. During the first quarter of 2014, capital outflows persisted, spurred by expectations of continuing ruble depreciation. The onset of geopolitical tensions raised the ruble pressure considerably, and the Bank of Russia (CBR) sharply increased net intervention, which reached US$26 billion in March, almost matching the US$27 billion in net interventions for all of 2013. Moreover, in response to significant currency pressures in early March, the CBR lowered the flexibility of its foreign exchange rule. It increased more than fourfold, to US$1.5 billion, the cumulative intervention required to move the exchange rate corridor. In June 2014, the CBR, in an attempt to revert back to more flexibility, reduced the intervention threshold to US$1 billion, eliminated the US$100 intervention sub-band, and reduced the amount of interventions in the remaining sub-band from US$300 to US$200. Although the CBR announced that it could determine its foreign exchange policy parameters daily, increasing discretion in its interven- tion policy, shifts in the bands have so far occurred in accordance with the new rule. Similarly, Guatemala widened the fluctuation margin, triggering interventions from 0.65 percent to 0.70 percent. The Bank of Guatemala may also intervene on a discretionary basis whenever the nominal exchange rate shows unusual volatility. Table 6. Changes in Exchange Rate Arrangements, Official Exchange Rate, and Monetary Policy Framework, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 Country Bolivia Burundi China Costa Rica Guatemala Change Effective June 11, 2013, the Regulation on Foreign Exchange Transactions provided that the official selling exchange rate should apply for the same-day sale of U.S. dollars to the general public and financial institutions debiting the accounts in domestic currency and crediting to accounts in U.S. dollars held with financial institutions (Board Resolution No. 063/2013). Effective April 12, 2013, with the replacement of the Marché des Enchères Symétriques en Devises (MESD) with the Marché Interbancaire des Devises, calculation of the reference rate was modified to include all Bank of the Republic of Burundi (BRB) transactions with its customers on the previous day. To prevent further sharp fluctuations, bank operations whose exchange rate deviates from the defined band are systematically excluded from the calculations. Previously, the BRB based the reference rate each morning on the weighted average of commercial banks’ foreign exchange purchases and sales with their customers on the previous day, excluding BRB transactions through the MESD. Effective July 14, 2014, the middle rate of the renminbi against the pound sterling is determined based on the average of the day’s market makers’ quotes. Previously, the rate was determined through the cross-rates by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System based on the day’s middle rate for the renminbi against the U.S. dollar and the exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against the pound sterling. Effective March 12, 2014, the board of directors of the Central Bank of Costa Rica broadened exchange rate intervention policies and approved a form of “interday” intervention in response to significant deviations in the exchange rate relative to the long-term trend in its fundamentals. Effective January 1, 2013, the annual inflation target is announced as a central target plus a margin; it is set at 4.0% ±1%, which is the medium-term target as of 2013. 16 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Table 6 (continued) Country Indonesia Iran Iraq Iraq Iraq Iraq Iraq Japan Japan Korea Kyrgyz Republic Latvia New Zealand Paraguay Russia Russia Russia A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Change Effective May 20, 2013, Bank Indonesia introduced the Jakarta interbank spot dollar rate (JISDOR) to serve as a credible spot reference rate in the domestic market. The JISDOR is the weighted average of U.S. dollar– rupiah spot transactions in the interbank market within a specific window, captured in real time through Bank Indonesia’s monitoring system. Effective July 3, 2013, the rial was devalued and a new official exchange rate was introduced, which is published on the Central Bank of Iran website. This rate is used for the settlement of oil and petrochemical product exports and for imports of priority goods and services. Effective April 15, 2013, the Central Bank of Iraq sells foreign exchange to banks for import letters of credit by adding ID 9 per U.S. dollar to the auction exchange rate. For other import transactions, the Central Bank of Iraq adds ID 13 per U.S. dollar. Effective December 1, 2013, the Central Bank of Iraq set the cash exchange rate at ID 1,177 per U.S. dollar, the letter of credit exchange rate at ID 1,172 per U.S. dollar, and the transfer transaction rate at ID 1,179 per U.S. dollar. Effective February 16, 2014, the commissions added to the currency selling window exchange rate of ID 1,166 per U.S. dollar to determine the selling rate of the Central Bank of Iraq were increased to ID 18 per U.S. dollar from ID 9 for import payments through letters of credit; ID 21 per U.S. dollar for drafts; and ID 24 per U.S. dollar from ID 13 for cash sales. Effective February 16, 2014, the Central Bank of Iraq set the cash exchange rate at ID 1,190 per U.S. dollar, letter of credit exchange rate at ID 1,184 per U.S. dollar, and transfer transaction rate at ID 1,187 per U.S. dollar. Effective February 16, 2014, the Central Bank of Iraq uses the official selling rate (previously buying rate) of the day minus 0.001% (previously 1%) to purchase the government’s foreign exchange receipts. Effective January 22, 2013, the Bank of Japan introduced the “price stability target” under the framework for the conduct of monetary policy. The newly introduced price stability target is the inflation rate the Bank of Japan judges to be consistent with sustainable price stability. The Bank of Japan recognizes that the inflation rate consistent with sustainable price stability will rise as efforts by a wide range of entities toward strengthening Japan’s competitiveness and growth potential progress. Based on this recognition, the Bank of Japan set the target at 2% in terms of the year-over-year rate of change in the consumer price index. Effective April 4, 2013, the Bank of Japan introduced “quantitative and qualitative monetary easing,” aiming to achieve the target of 2% year-over-year change in the consumer price index as soon as possible, with a horizon of about two years. To do so, it decided to double the monetary base and the amount of outstanding Japanese government bonds and exchange-traded funds in two years and more than double the average remaining maturity of Japanese government bond purchases. Effective January 1, 2013, the inflation target for 2013 onward is in the range of 2.5%–3.5% based on the year- over-year average change in the consumer price index. The target horizon is three years (currently, 2013–15). Effective March 1, 2014, pursuant to National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) Executive Board Resolution No. 51/9, of December 20, 2013, on the Discount Rate of the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic, the NBKR switched to a new monetary framework in which interest rates serve as an intermediate target in the development and implementation of monetary policy. Pursuant to this resolution, the arrangement for determining the discount rate changed from being pegged to the average value of an NBKR 28-day note for the previous four auctions to setting of the rate by decision of the NBKR Executive Board. Effective January 1, 2014, the de jure exchange rate arrangement of the euro area is free floating. Latvia participates in a currency union (EMU) with, as of January 1, 2014, 17 other members (previously 16) of the EU and has no separate legal tender. The euro, the common currency, floats freely and independently against other currencies. The European Central Bank (ECB) publishes information regarding its interventions; it last intervened in March 2011. When it intervenes, the ECB intervenes at the quotes of the market makers. Effective May 30, 2013, as outlined in a speech delivered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) governor on May 30, 2013, the RBNZ initiated foreign exchange transactions to dampen some of the spikes in the exchange rate in the earlier months and is prepared to scale up foreign exchange activities if there are opportunities to have greater influence. Effective January 6, 2014, the policy objective for inflation is 5%, and the inflation target for 2014 is 5% with a tolerance band of ±2% (previously 2.5%), as determined by Resolution No. 15, Minute No. 1, of January 6, 2014. The monetary policy instrument used by the Central Bank of Paraguay is the overnight fixed interest rate, and the current monetary policy target rate is 6.75% (previously 5.5%). Effective September 9, 2013, the Bank of Russia decreased the cumulative amount of interventions triggering a shift in the boundaries of the operating interval by 5 kopeks, from US$450 million to US$400 million. Effective October 7, 2013, the Bank of Russia broadened symmetrically the range in which it does not perform currency interventions from Rub 1.00 to Rub 3.10. Effective October 21, 2013, the Bank of Russia decreased the daily volume of targeted interventions from US$120 million to US$60 million. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 17 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 6 (concluded) Country Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Sierra Leone Sierra Leone Solomon Islands Solomon Islands Solomon Islands Tunisia Ukraine Uruguay Uruguay Uruguay Venezuela Change Effective December 10, 2013, the Bank of Russia decreased the cumulative amount of interventions triggering a shift in the boundaries of the operating interval by 5 kopeks, from US$400 million to US$350 million. Effective January 13, 2014, the daily volume of targeted interventions was decreased from US$60 million to zero. Effective March 3, 2014, given the increasing volatility in the financial market, with the aim of maintaining financial stability, the Bank of Russia began to set the parameters of exchange rate policy daily. The cumulative amount of interventions triggering a shift in the boundaries of the operating interval by 5 kopeks was increased to US$1.5 billion. Effective May 22, 2014, the amount of interventions in all sub-bands was reduced by US$100 million, from US$400 million to US$300 million and from US$200 million to US$100 million, with the aim of reverting to greater flexibility in the foreign exchange market. Effective June 17, 2014, the cumulative volume of interventions leading to a shift in the floating operational band was reduced from US$1.5 billion to US$1 billion. Effective June 17, 2014, the US$ 100 million intervention sub-band was eliminated, leading to an increase in the non-intervention zone by 2 rubles. Effective June 17, 2014, the amount of interventions in the remaining sub-band was reduced from US$300 million to US$200 million. Effective January 23, 2013, the weekly auction amount was reduced to US$0.70 million from US$1 million. Effective July 10, 2013, the amount of foreign exchange sold at the weekly auctions was reduced from US$0.70 million to US$0.50 million. Effective January 1, 2013, the new Central Bank Act—Central Bank of Solomon Islands Act 2012—went into effect. Section 16 states that without compromising the primary objective of domestic price stability, the government may after consultation with the Central Bank of the Solomon Islands determine the exchange rate regime and that the Central Bank of the Solomon Islands may, after consultation with the minister of finance, determine and implement the exchange rate policy and enter into foreign exchange arrangements. Effective June 26, 2013, the Central Bank of the Solomon Islands made a downward adjustment to the base rate from SI$7.35 to SI$7.28 per U.S. dollar while maintaining the ±1% band around the base rate in accordance with the appreciation policy. Effective May 27, 2014, the value of the Solomon Island dollar (SI$) per U.S. dollar (US$) is the value of the index times the SI$ per US$ value on the day the basket peg was introduced. The exchange rate (midrate) is expressed in SI$ per US$ and is determined by the total index of the basket multiplied by the initial base rate expressed in SI$ rather than in US$ as was done previously. The midrate is announced as the official rate. Effective December 27, 2013, in conducting monetary policy, the regulatory framework of the Central Bank of Tunisia uses currency swaps as monetary policy instruments according to Circular No. 2013-19. Effective April 4, 2014, the National Bank of Ukraine implemented a new method of calculating the official exchange rate. The official exchange rate is set as the weighted average of the buying and selling exchange rates of the hryvnia against the U.S. dollar confirmed in the System for the Confirmation of Agreements on the Interbank Foreign Exchange Market of Ukraine (Agreement Confirmation System) of the same day instead of the exchange rates of the previous day. Effective June 27, 2013, from September 2007 to June 2013 the Central Bank of Uruguay used the one-day interest rate as an operational target of the monetary policy within the inflation-targeting framework. The Central Bank of Uruguay switched to using the trajectory of monetary aggregate M1-plus (M1+)—the sum of the issuance of money held by the public, demand deposits, and savings of the public in the banking system—as a monetary policy reference indicator. It also set the indicative reference range of year-over-year growth for M1+ for 2013:Q3 at 12.5%–13%. Effective October 7, 2013, the Monetary Policy Committee fixed the indicative reference range of year- over-year growth for M1-plus (M1+) for 2013:Q4 at 15%–17%, forecasting aggregate growth for that aggregate gradually converging at about 8% year over year for the quarter ending in June 2015 (which refers to the policy evaluation horizon). The 12-month growth rate of M1+ was 14.8% in 2013:Q3 and 13.7% in 2013:Q4. The M1+ data are published monthly on the Central Bank of Uruguay website. Effective April 8, 2014, the Macroeconomic Coordination Committee, composed of members from the Central Bank of Uruguay and the Ministry of Finance, announced a widening of the inflation-target band to 3%–7% starting in July 2014 from the current range of 4%–6%. It also increased the monetary policy horizon to 24 months. Effective February 8, 2013, the official bolívar–U.S. dollar exchange rate was devalued to Bs 6.30 from Bs 4.30 per U.S. dollar. Source: AREAER database. 18 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Official Exchange Rates The vast majority (168) of IMF member countries report publishing official exchange rates. This includes not only countries that have officially determined and/or enforced exchange rates; by definition it also refers to any reference or indicative exchange rate that is computed and/or published by the central bank (see the Compilation Guide). The calculation of such exchange rates is often based on market exchange rates, such as exchange rates used in interbank market transactions or in a combination of interbank and bank-client transactions in a specified observation period. The published exchange rate is used as a guideline for market participants or for accounting and customs valuation purposes, in exchange transactions with the government, and sometimes mandatorily in specific exchange transactions. During the 2013–14 reporting period, El Salvador joined the group of countries reporting an official exchange rate, while there was no reference exchange rate published by the Bank of Japan. Several countries adopted new methods for calculating their official exchange rates (Burundi, China, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Solomon Islands, Ukraine). Countries from all income levels and various geographic regions are represented among the 22 members that report no official or reference exchange rates; more than half (12) are countries with no separate legal tender; the rest include the 5 with a floating or free-floating de facto exchange rate arrangement and the 6 advanced economies (Japan, Korea, San Marino, Singapore, Switzerland, United States). Among the countries that do not compute an official exchange rate, some publish the market- determined rates on their monetary authority’s website to promote information transparency, including Japan, Peru, and Singapore. Foreign Exchange Markets The modernization of foreign exchange market structures continued during 2013 and through July 2014, although there were only minor changes in the reported foreign exchange market structure of members (Table 7). There was a decline in the number of countries with a foreign exchange standing facility (by 2) or with an allocation system (by 4) as foreign exchange markets developed and market-based arrangements increased. Other noteworthy developments include an increase in the number of countries with over-the-counter interbank markets (by 4) and those with interbank markets based on market makers (by 2). The number of countries with a forward foreign exchange market decreased by 2 to 127, the same number as in 2012. Table 8.a includes detailed descriptions of changes concerning foreign exchange market arrangements. Table 7. Foreign Exchange Market Structure, 2011–14 (Number of IMF members as of April 30)1 Spot exchange market Operated by the central bank Foreign exchange standing facility Allocation Auction Fixing Interbank market Over the counter Brokerage Market making Forward exchange market 20112 186 117 80 31 26 5 157 109 45 73 128 2012 187 115 77 30 29 5 159 115 46 71 127 2013 188 118 76 31 31 5 161 122 49 73 129 2014 188 119 75 27 32 6 161 127 50 75 127 Source: AREAER database. 1 Includes 188 member countries and 3 territories: Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and Hong Kong SAR (China). 2 Does not include South Sudan, which became an IMF member on April 18, 2012. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 19 Table 7. a (continued) A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8.a. Changes in Foreign Exchange Markets, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 Country Afghanistan Afghanistan Afghanistan Bolivia Bolivia Bolivia Burundi Burundi Burundi China China China Czech Republic Change Effective March 6, 2013, the settlement period for Da Afghanistan Bank’s foreign currency auctions was changed to T+1 from within the same day. Effective March 18, 2013, successful bidders who fail to settle their account within T+1 day must pay a fine, which was raised to US$20,000 from US$10,000. Effective July 11, 2013, successful bidders who fail to settle their account within T+1 day are fined the total cash collateral of Af 1,500,000. Effective January 2, 2013, the fee on outward funds transfers by the financial system through the Central Bank of Bolivia was set at 1%, and the fee on inward funds transfers by the financial system through the Central Bank of Bolivia at 0.6% (Board Resolution No. 212/2012). Effective June 11, 2013, direct intraday sales (ventas directas adjudicadas en el día) were introduced as a new mechanism for selling U.S. dollars to the financial and nonfinancial private sector. The Monetary and Exchange Policy Committee established (1) a daily amount of US$30 million for intraday sales, with a minimum bid of US$100,000 and in multiples of US$100,000; and (2) the sales hours as 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. (Board Resolution No. 063/2013). Effective June 12, 2013, the nonfinancial private sectors were given access to the bolsín in addition to the financial sector, with a bid of US$120 million and overnight execution (adjudicación al día siguiente). Effective March 1, 2013, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi set a fluctuation margin on foreign currency purchases and sales by commercial banks and exchange bureaus of ±1% of the reference rate it publishes each morning. Previously, authorized dealers could set their exchange rates according to the reference rate. Effective April 12, 2013, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi established an interbank foreign exchange market, the Marché Interbancaire des Devises, to replace the Marché des Enchères Symétriques en Devises. To encourage banks to trade currencies and promote the interbank market, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi acted to prevent exchange bureaus from procuring foreign exchange from commercial banks. The new regulations governing the interbank foreign exchange market allow the Bank of the Republic of Burundi to intervene on its own initiative in accordance with market conditions. Effective April 12, 2013, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi replaced the Marché des Enchères Symétriques en Devises, which had lost its symmetry. Only the Bank of the Republic of Burundi was intervening in the Marché des Enchères Symétriques en Devises despite the assumption that it was driven by commercial banks, with the Bank of the Republic of Burundi intervening only as a last resort. Effective March 17, 2014, the floating band of the renminbi’s (RMB’s) trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the interbank foreign exchange market was widened from 1% to 2%. That is, on each business day, the trading prices of the RMB against the U.S. dollar in the market may fluctuate within a band of ±2% around the central parity released that day by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The range of the spread between the highest offer price and the lowest bid price for RMB–U.S. dollar spot transactions at foreign-exchange-designated banks and their customers was widened from 2% to 3% of the central parity. Effective March 19, 2014, the interbank foreign exchange market launched direct trading of the renminbi against the New Zealand dollar. Effective July 14, 2014, the People’s Bank of China has allowed banks to set exchange rate quotes to their clients based on supply and demand in the market (PBC No. 2014/188). Previously, the difference between the maximum cash selling prices offered and the minimum cash buying prices of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar could not exceed 4% of the daily middle rate. The difference between the highest spot exchange (cash) selling price and the lowest spot exchange (cash) buying price had to contain the day’s middle rate. Within the official spread range, banks could independently decide the buying and selling prices for spot and cash transactions. Effective November 1, 2013, act No 277/2013 Coll., on Foreign Exchange Activities, replaced the provisions of foreign currency exchange activities of Act No. 219/1995 Coll., Foreign Exchange Act. 20 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Type Easing Tightening Tightening Tightening Neutral Easing Tightening Easing Easing Easing Neutral Easing Tightening Table 7. a (continued) Table 8. a (continued) Country Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Egypt Ghana Ghana Guatemala Guinea A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Change Effective January 6, 2013, the following restrictions were imposed on bid-ask spreads quoted by authorized foreign exchange dealers: (1) The client bid rate may range from three piastres (one piastre is one-hundredth of a pound) below the interbank bid rate to the interbank bid rate (previously, from 150 basis points below the interbank bid rate to the interbank bid rate). (2) The client offer rate must not exceed three piastres above the interbank offer rate (previously, within 50–150 basis points above the interbank rate). Effective February 4, 2013, in the interbank foreign exchange market, banks may place their bids and offers within a band of ±1 piastre (previously ±0.5%) around the weighted average rate of the most recent foreign exchange auction. Effective February 4, 2013, the restrictions regarding bid-ask spreads were revised as follows: (1) The interbank bid and offer rates may vary between ±1 piastre (one piastre is one-hundredth of a pound) around the weighted average of the latest auction held by the Central Bank of Egypt. (2) The client bid rate may be between one piastre below the interbank bid rate and the interbank bid rate. (3) The client offer rate (for those with commercial needs) may vary between the interbank offer rate and one piastre above the interbank offer rate. Retail clients pay an additional commission of 1–2 piastres (previously 0.5–1%) on the offer side. Effective April 14, 2013, the Central Bank of Egypt announced and held an exceptional auction for the sale of US$600 million. Banks were required to apply with the amount of their clients’ outstanding import needs as follows: (1) staple commodities (tea, meat, poultry, fish, wheat, oil, milk powder and infant milk, beans, lentils, butter, corn); (2) capital goods spare parts; (3) intermediate production components and raw materials; and (4) pharmaceuticals and vaccines. Effective May 22, 2013, the Central Bank of Egypt announced and held an exceptional auction for the sale of US$800 million. Banks were required to apply with the amount of their clients’ outstanding import needs as follows: (1) staple commodities (tea, meat, poultry, fish, wheat, oil, milk powder and infant milk, beans, lentils, butter, corn); (2) capital goods spare parts; (3) intermediate production components and raw materials; and (4) pharmaceuticals and vaccines. Effective September 4, 2013, the Central Bank of Egypt announced and held an exceptional auction for the sale of US$1.3 billion. Banks were required to apply with the amount of their clients’ outstanding import needs as follows: (1) staple commodities (tea, meat, poultry, fish, wheat, oil, milk powder and infant milk, beans, lentils, butter, corn); (2) capital goods spare parts; (3) intermediate production components and raw materials; and (4) pharmaceuticals and vaccines. Effective December 18, 2013, banks were instructed by the Central Bank of Egypt to reduce the bid-ask spread on non-U.S. dollar currencies to levels, in line with the spread for the U.S. dollar. Effective January 27, 2014, the Central Bank of Egypt offered about US$1.5 billion to the market at its fourth exceptional auction. Effective May 14, 2014, the Central Bank of Egypt offered about US$1.1 billion to the market at its fifth exceptional auction, where banks were required to apply with the amounts of their clients’ entire outstanding staple food commodities import needs. Effective February 4, 2014, foreign exchange bureaus may not sell or buy more than US$10,000 or its equivalent a transaction (BG/GOV/SEC/2014/01). Effective February 4, 2014, offshore foreign exchange deals by resident and nonresident companies, including exporters and nonresident banks, are strictly prohibited (BG/GOV/SEC/2014/03). Effective January 1, 2014, the fluctuation margin (added to or subtracted from the five-day moving average of the reference exchange rate) that determines whether the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) may intervene in the exchange market was increased from ±0.65% to ±0.70%. The BOG may intervene if the reference rate reaches or exceeds these limits around the moving average of the reference rates for the previous five business days, pursuant to Monetary Board Resolution No. JM-121-2013. Effective December 26, 2013, the central bank sets the weekly auction market rate as the reference rate every Thursday. Type Tightening Tightening Tightening Neutral Neutral Neutral Tightening Neutral Neutral Tightening Tightening Easing Neutral International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 21 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8. a (continued) Country Honduras Iraq Iraq Iraq Iraq Jordan Korea Korea Kyrgyz Republic Latvia Lebanon Type Easing Tightening Tightening Easing Easing Tightening Tightening Easing Easing Neutral Tightening Change Effective July 4, 2013, the Central bank of Honduras maintains an operational band requiring all bid prices for purchases of foreign exchange to be within a range of 7% above or below the base price, with a requirement that auction bids not exceed 1% of the average base price (previously 0.075% of the average reference exchange rate) derived from auctions during the preceding seven business days (Resolution No. 271- 7/2013 of July 3, 2013). Effective February 17, 2013, authorized banks’ spreads were capped at ID 10 per U.S. dollar over the exchange rate at which banks may buy foreign exchange at the Central Bank of Iraq currency selling window. Effective April 15, 2013, banks may buy foreign exchange up to US$500,000 for import payments provided the bank submits to the Central Bank of Iraq a statement of the amounts to be transferred together with the documents that prove the entry of the goods in Iraq. The exchange rate for such payments may not exceed ID 1,179 per U.S. dollar. Effective April 15, 2013, the weekly limits for money transfer companies and money exchange companies were increased to US$450,000 from US$75,000 and to US$300,000 from US$75,000, respectively. These limits may be increased or decreased according to market conditions and the companies’ commitment to sell U.S. dollars to citizens. Effective February 16, 2014, the total amount sold monthly to a bank (for their direct sales window and sales to financial transfer and intermediary companies for buying and selling foreign exchange) may not exceed 25% of its capital, calculated in U.S. dollars, for banks with capital less than ID 250 billion. Demand from banks with capital greater than ID 250 billion is met. U.S. dollars sold for documentary credits are transferred according to payment conditions after the bank confirms the receipt of the required documents. Effective January 16, 2013, a Cabinet decision increased the paid-up capital requirement of foreign exchange bureaus (money exchange companies), and the Central Bank of Jordan announced compliance procedures for the higher capital requirements. Effective January 1, 2013, the limits on banks’ foreign exchange derivatives contracts were reduced from 40% to 30% of bank capital (for domestic banks) and from 200% to 150% (for foreign bank branches). Effective January 1, 2014, spot foreign exchange transactions are allowed between security brokerages. Effective April 26, 2013, per the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic of April 26, 2013, on Amendments and Additions to Certain Kyrgyz Republic Legislative Acts, and to the Law on Transactions in Foreign Currency, credit unions, specialized financial and credit institutions, and microfinance and microcredit companies were authorized to perform professional foreign currency transactions with individuals and legal entities. Effective January 1, 2014, the Bank of Latvia’s foreign exchange standing facility ceased to exist with Latvia’s adoption of the euro. Effective June 30, 2013, the Banque du Liban issued Basic Circular No. 4 of December 7, 2011. It stipulates that category A money dealers must raise their capital to LBP 750 million from LBP 250 million and category B money dealers from LBP 100 million to LBP 250 million—or LBP 500 million if established before December 7, 2011, and 500 million if established on or after December 7, 2011. Money dealers were given until June 30, 2013, to comply. Category A money dealers may deal in cash, transfers, checks, traveler’s checks, and precious metals. Category B money dealers whose capital was raised to LBP 500 million may deal in cash and traveler’s checks up to the equivalent of US$10,000, uncollected traveler’s checks, and gold bars not exceeding 1,000 grams. Category B money dealers established before December 7, 2011, may opt to raise their capital to LBP 500 million in order to expand their operations to include the above (BDL Basic Circular No. 4). 22 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8. a (continued) Country Lebanon Liberia FYR Macedonia Malaysia Mauritania Mexico Moldova Moldova Moldova Morocco Morocco Myanmar Nigeria Change Effective September 20, 2013, only money dealers with capital greater than US$ 500,000 may make hawala transactions. The maximum amount of each hawala transaction (inward or outward) is US$20,000. The total amount of hawala transactions a year may not exceed 10 times the capital of the money dealer (BDL Basic Circular No. 111, as amended). Effective September 11, 2013, the Central Bank of Liberia closed the noncompetitive window for foreign exchange bureaus and requires all businesses to participate through the regular auction. Effective March 11, 2014, the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia Council adopted the Decision on Amendments of the Decision on Currency Exchange Operations. A principal amendment is cancellation of repurchases. Foreign exchange bureaus may now sell foreign currency cash to foreign natural persons in the same way as to domestic natural persons. In addition, foreign exchange operations were modernized through introduction of ATMs with a foreign exchange operations function for banks. Effective June 30, 2013, residents may undertake anticipatory hedging involving ringgit for financial account transactions with licensed onshore banks, except licensed International Islamic Banks. Nonresidents may (1) undertake anticipatory hedging involving ringgit for current account transactions with licensed onshore banks, except licensed International Islamic Banks; and (2) hedge ringgit exposure arising from investments acquired prior to April 1, 2005 with licensed onshore banks, except licensed International Islamic Banks. Effective November 14, 2013, the ouguiya equivalent of the cumulative bids submitted by banks at an exchange market session may not exceed their free reserves (previously 130% of their free reserves) in ouguiyas at the previous day’s close. All bids that exceed the limit are automatically rejected. Effective April 8, 2013, the auctions were suspended because the conditions of national and international financial markets indicated that the volatility of the exchange rate had decreased. Effective March 1, 2013, the National Bank of Moldova launched interbank foreign exchange auctions (in the form of multiple price auctions) for purchases and sales of foreign currency against lei with licensed banks through a unique trading platform (based on Bloomberg). Effective September 14, 2013, resident investment firms were allowed to perform foreign exchange buying and selling transactions related to the provision of investment services. Effective September 14, 2013, the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money and Law on Capital Market went into effect allowing resident nonbank payment service providers and electronic money institutions to perform foreign exchange buying and selling operations related to the issuance of electronic money and the provision of payment services. Effective June 26, 2013, rules governing the establishment of foreign exchange counters by licensed intermediary banks on sea ferries operating between Morocco and other countries were liberalized. Banks (1) may bring aboard the ferry, under customs control, a stock of dirham banknotes for each crossing; and (2) must limit such transactions to the purchase of foreign banknotes against dirhams from Moroccan citizens and foreign residents or nonresidents traveling to Morocco. For this purpose, the bank must execute with customs a dirham export declaration at the time of the ferry’s departure. Effective August 30, 2013, nonresident individuals (foreigners and Moroccans residing abroad) are not required to show a foreign currency receipt when reselling surplus dirhams up to DH 2000 to foreign exchange bureaus, funds transfer intermediation companies, and authorized intermediary banks at ports and airports. Effective August 5, 2013, authorized private banks participate in the interbank foreign exchange market, which commenced operations on August 5, 2013. Thus far, 21 banks have accessed the interbank market. Effective October 2, 2013, the wDAS was replaced by the rDAS due to an increase in non-import-related demand for U.S. dollars, which was considered to be associated with money laundering activities. Foreign exchange is sold through the rDAS twice a week. Type Tightening Neutral Easing Easing Tightening Neutral Neutral Easing Easing Easing Easing Easing Tightening International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 23 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8. a (continued) Country Pakistan Peru South Africa Sri Lanka Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Change Effective February 12, 2013, for exchange companies (both category A and B), the spread between the buying and selling rates of foreign currencies may not exceed 25 paisas (Foreign Exchange Circular No. 1 of February 12, 2013). Effective January 23, 2013, transactions in the foreign exchange market by private pension funds—Administradoras Privadas de Fondos de Pensiones—may not exceed a daily limit of 0.75% (previously 0.85%) of the value of the fund and of 1.75% (previously 1.95%) for the preceding five days (Superintendence of Banks, Insurance Companies, and Pension Funds Resolution No. 561-2013). Effective July 22, 2013, ADs in foreign exchange with limited authority are classified as follows: Category one—authorized to operate as a bureau de change; Category two—authorized to operate as a bureau de change and offer money remittance services in partnership with external money transfer operators; and Category three— authorized to operate as an independent money transfer operator. During the lifetime of its operations, an AD in foreign exchange with limited authority must maintain a minimum unimpaired capital fund in a savings/investment type bank account in foreign exchange separate from its own or its clients’ funds as follows: Category one: R 2 million; Category two: R 3 million; Category three: R 5 million. Effective January 2, 2013, the 90-day limit on the maturity of forward foreign exchange contracts was eliminated. Effective May 23, 2014, authorized dealers were allowed to resell foreign exchange proceeds obtained from a competitive auction up to a maximum price equal to their successful bidding rates. Previously, a cap determined with relation to the latest allocation exchange rate applied on the exchange rate at which banks could sell foreign exchange purchased at the auction to their clients. Effective March 1, 2014, an electronic bank interlinking platform and a market- making agreement are in place. Effective January 2, 2013, intraday foreign exchange selling auctions were suspended. Effective January 2, 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey suspended its activities as an intermediary in the foreign exchange deposit markets. Effective June 11, 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey resumed intraday foreign exchange selling auctions with US$50 million to be sold at each auction, and published the following guidelines: (1) Only banks authorized to operate in Foreign Exchange and Banknotes Markets in the CB are eligible to participate in intraday auctions. (2) The number and other details of the auction are posted on Reuters page CBTQ. Following the announcement of the auction, banks may submit their offers within 15 minutes. (3) Offers may be sent via the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey Payment Systems Auction System (IhS). (4) Auctions are held under the multiple price method. (5) The results of the auctions are posted on Reuters page CBTQ within 15 minutes of the deadline for submission of the offers. (6) The minimum offer amount is US$1 million and multiples thereof. (7) The maximum offer amount for each bank is limited to 20% of the total auction amount. (8) Banks may not change their offer amounts and/or prices during the auction. (9) The selling amount for each intraday auction is US$50 million, and the full amount of offers received is met up to the auction amount. (10) If there is more than one offer at the price at which the auction is finalized, the distribution is made on a pro-rata basis. (11) Banks that do not fulfill their obligations arising from the auctions are subject to the sanctions specified in the Implementation Instructions of the Foreign Exchange and Banknotes Markets. Effective June 11, 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced that it may hold unsterilized intraday foreign exchange sales auctions or foreign exchange interventions when deemed necessary in order to support short-term additional monetary tightening. Effective June 20, 2013, the amount to be sold at each intraday auction is set individually by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey and posted on Reuters page CBTQ. Type Tightening Tightening Neutral Easing Easing Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral 24 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Change Effective June 24, 2013, there may be only one intraday foreign exchange selling auction on the days on which funding is provided from the policy rate, and the auction amount is set to a of minimum US$150 million and posted on Reuters page CBTQ at 3:00 p.m. Effective July 2, 2013, the minimum amount for the foreign exchange selling auctions was changed from US$150 million to US$50 million, and the maximum bid amount for each bank was limited to 10% (previously 20%) of the total auction amount. Effective July 24, 2013, foreign exchange selling auctions were suspended on additional monetary tightening days. Effective August 1, 2013, the intraday foreign exchange selling auction time was changed to 4:30 p.m. from 3:00 p.m. Effective August 21, 2013, the minimum amount for the foreign exchange selling auctions was changed from US$50 million to US$100 million. Effective August 22, 2013, the daily minimum sale amount for the foreign exchange selling auctions began to be announced at 10:30 a.m. Effective September 20, 2013, the intraday foreign exchange selling auction amount was changed to minimum US$20 million. Effective December 11, 2013, the intraday foreign exchange selling auction amount was changed from US$20 million to at least US$50 million. Effective December 20, 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced that on days when excessive volatility in the exchange rates is observed, the foreign currency sales amount may be raised up to 10 times the announced minimum amount. Effective December 24, 2013, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey announced that the planned minimum foreign exchange selling auction amount would be US$450 million every day for the rest of December 2013 and US$100 million every day in January 2014. Effective January 1, 2013, foreign exchange transactions up to HRV 50,000 require documentation verifying the identity of a person; larger amounts require physical identification of the individual. Previously, banks and financial institutions purchased foreign exchange from individuals against any document verifying their identity. Effective April 29, 2014, non-trade-related international transfers in foreign exchange by individuals were limited to HRV 150,000 a month from foreign exchange accounts and to HRV 15,000 otherwise with certain exceptions, including for medical and educational expenses. Effective April 29, 2014, the daily limit on individuals’ foreign currency cash purchases was reduced from HRV 150,000 to HRV 15,000. Effective June 1, 2014, the registration of exchange offices by the regional offices of the NBU was discontinued. Effective February 1, 2013, foreign exchange operations with residents must take place through conversion operations departments in authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. These departments sell foreign exchange to resident individuals by converting sum on the personal bank card of the resident to foreign exchange deposited on an international payment card. Effective March 25, 2013, the Central Bank of Venezuela launched the first foreign currency auction with a first offer of US$200 million through the Complementary System to the Administration of Foreign Exchange. Effective January 1, 2014, petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. oil export revenues are sold to the Central Bank of Venezuela at the National Foreign Exchange Administration Commission rate of Bs 6.3 per U.S. dollar; all non-export revenues from Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A., its branches, and joint ventures may be sold at the Complementary System to the Administration of Foreign Exchange rate, minus 0.25%. Type Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Tightening Neutral Tightening Table 8. a (concluded) Country Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Uzbekistan Venezuela Venezuela Source: AREAER database. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 25 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Foreign Exchange Standing Facilities, Auctions, Allocations, and Fixing More than half of IMF member countries (119) report maintaining some type of official facility by the cen- tral bank in the spot foreign exchange market, an increase of 1 from the previous year. Mauritius introduced interventions on both an auction basis and at fixed rates, while Burundi discontinued its use of official foreign exchange auctions during the reporting period. • Foreign exchange standing facilities. Almost two-thirds of members with foreign exchange markets fully or partially operated by the central bank reported maintaining a foreign exchange standing facility (75), a reduction of 2 that continues a downward trend that started in 2011. Such a facility allows market par- ticipants to buy foreign exchange from or sell it to the central bank at predetermined exchange rates and is usually instrumental in maintaining a hard or soft peg arrangement. The credibility of such arrangements depends to a large extent on the availability of foreign exchange reserves backing the facility. The countries with foreign exchange standing facilities include all those with currency boards (12); conventional pegs, with the exception of South Sudan (43); crawling pegs (2); or a pegged exchange rate within horizon- tal bands (1). South Sudan, as a newly independent country with a de jure conventional peg exchange rate regime, has a nascent foreign exchange market and is in the process of developing its central bank operations. The remaining 16 countries with foreign exchange standing facilities are those with stabilized arrangements (9), with other managed arrangements (5), or whose foreign exchange markets are less devel- oped. Bolivia reported a foreign exchange standing facility in which market participants may buy foreign currency at the central bank, but only private financial institutions may sell it. Bolivia is experiencing a rising real effective exchange rate in the face of large public investment and relatively high inflation, so this facility helps support its management of foreign exchange liquidity and its maintenance of the sliding rate of the official crawling peg exchange rate regime, which was set at zero to prevent misalignment of the real exchange rate with its long-term trend. Two countries reported the elimination of their foreign exchange standing facilities: Latvia, after it joined the EMU, and Malawi. • Foreign exchange auctions. The changes to auctions were overwhelmingly toward easing across the mem- bership during the reporting period. There was an increase (by 1) in the number of countries holding official foreign exchange auctions (32). In a significant majority of those countries (26) foreign exchange auctions are the only mechanism operated by central banks. Half (16) have exchange rate regimes classified as floating; among these, more than half (9) hold foreign exchange auctions, and 6 of those 9 have de facto stabilized arrangements. Auctions are also used to influence the exchange rate rather than solely to man- age foreign reserves. For example, Mexico suspended its auctions when exchange rate volatility diminished with changing national and international financial market conditions. For similar reasons, Turkey held foreign exchange selling auctions to support short-term additional monetary tightening. These auctions were used to slow the depreciation of the lira after Turkey’s heavy reliance on short-term capital inflows became apparent when global demand for emerging market assets fell markedly when the Federal Reserve signaled it would take steps to normalize monetary policy. In response, Turkey suspended the intraday foreign exchange auctions in January 2013, following a year without such intervention. It reinstated the mechanism in June 2013, a time of significant volatility, and changed the auction rules and daily limits sev- eral times during the reporting period to improve its capacity to intervene in the foreign exchange market. Similarly, Moldova launched two-way multiple-price foreign exchange auctions, and Venezuela introduced foreign exchange auctions to expand the mechanisms its central bank already had in place (foreign exchange standing facility and allocation system). Bolivia gave the nonfinancial private sector access to the daily com- petitive foreign exchange auction, and Burundi discontinued the Marché des Enchères Symmétriques en Devises, a platform the central bank used to hold foreign exchange auctions as part of an effort to revamp its foreign exchange market. Afghanistan increased the auction settlement period (easing) but twice increased the penalty for bidders’ failure to settle accounts within the prescribed time frame (tightening). Trinidad and Tobago relaxed the rules for resale of foreign exchange obtained from auctions. • Foreign exchange allocation systems. The composition of countries with allocation systems changed, and their number decreased by 4 to 27. Most of the countries (21) with allocation systems also rely on other mechanisms operated by their central banks. Foreign exchange allocation is often used to provide foreign exchange for strategic imports, such as oil or food, when foreign exchange reserves are scarce. When these arrangements result in rationing, they can give rise to exchange restrictions. Given South Sudan’s nascent foreign exchange market, the Bank of South Sudan attempts to clear the foreign exchange market through 26 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 weekly allocations under the nominal anchor of the fixed exchange rate. It currently provides foreign exchange only for public services, such as medical, travel, and study needs, and these are subject to weekly or currency-specific limits. In addition, a special foreign exchange facility applies to essential imports. Nepal and Iraq joined the group of countries with allocation systems, but the Bank of Central African States (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon) no longer reports exchanging CFA francs for euros at the official exchange rate or, in the case of other currencies, at the fixed CFA franc–euro and euro cross-rate against those currencies. During the reporting period, Iraq introduced 2 tightening and 1 easing measure with respect to banks’ purchases of foreign exchange at the Central Bank of Iraq currency selling window. These measures reflected the authorities’ twin goals of liberalizing the foreign exchange market over the medium term on the one hand and fully implementing anti-money-laundering and combating the financing of terrorism measures on the other. • Fixing sessions. Fixing sessions are more characteristic of an early stage of market development, when they help establish a market-clearing exchange rate in a shallow market with less-experienced market partici- pants. The number of countries holding such sessions increased by 1 to 6, but only Belarus and Mauritania continue to do so on a regular basis. As a major conduit for foreign aid flows, Mozambique’s central bank channels foreign exchange into the market by holding selling sessions with authorized banks via its software platform. Serbia retains the option of using fixing sessions when necessary to stabilize the foreign exchange market. Although the Islamic Republic of Iran indicated that it held fixing sessions during the reporting period, the extent and regularity of such operations are unknown. Interbank and Retail Foreign Exchange Markets There has been no change in the number of countries (161) that reported a functioning interbank market. The main types of interbank markets in these countries include over-the-counter markets, brokerage arrange- ments, and market-making arrangements. Thirty-five members allow operation of all three types of systems. Of the 161 countries with a functioning interbank market, more than two-thirds (127), 5 more than in the previous year, operate over the counter: 64 of those operate exclusively over the counter; 75 employ a market- making arrangement; and 50 allow for intermediation by brokers. Six members reported an inactive interbank market, the same number as in the previous reporting period. The Democratic Republic of the Congo left and the Solomon Islands joined this group. • Over-the-counter operations. These account for the majority of interbank markets (126) because in a num- ber of economies, particularly small economies, market participants cannot undertake the commitments involved in being a market maker. Burundi established an over-the-counter interbank foreign exchange market, the Marché Interbancaire des Devises, to replace the previous foreign exchange auctions. Morocco liberalized the establishment of over-the-counter operations on ferries, allowing licensed banks to purchase foreign exchange against dirhams from travelers to Morocco. Over-the-counter foreign exchange markets also operate in developed economies, where the market is sufficiently liquid to operate without the support of specific arrangements or institutions. • Brokerage arrangements. Fifty members reported using brokers (including Korea and Singapore), 1 more than in the previous period. Italy now reports broker participation in the foreign exchange market. During the reporting period, Korea allowed spot foreign exchange transactions between security brokerages. • Market-making agreements. Seventy-five members reported using market-making agreements in the inter- bank market, an increase of 2. This form of market arrangement is used both in developed economies (including Switzerland) and developing economies (including Zambia) and across all types of exchange rate arrangements. More than two-thirds of member countries report a framework for the operation of foreign exchange bureaus, with the majority imposing some type of licensing requirement. However, there are no bureaus in operation in a number of these countries. Several changes, which were overwhelmingly toward tightening, affected exchange bureaus during the reporting period. The Bank of the Republic of Burundi set a fluctuation margin on foreign currency transactions of ±1 percent of its reference rate and acted to prevent exchange bureaus from procuring foreign exchange from commercial banks to promote the interbank market. The Czech Republic introduced customer protection measures in relation to foreign exchange activities. Ghana imposed International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 27 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 a per-transaction limit on foreign exchange bureau transactions, and Jordan and Lebanon increased money dealers’ capitalization requirements. As part of a comprehensive program to stabilize the domestic financial system, Ukraine implemented a series of tightening measures: it decreased the limits on non-trade-related international transfers in foreign exchange by individuals and on daily foreign currency cash purchases; imposed additional identification restrictions, requiring physical identification of individuals for transactions exceeding HRV 50,000; and discontinued required registration of exchange offices by the regional offices of the National Bank of Ukraine. Uzbekistan now seeks to encourage the use of payment cards with a view to modernizing and enhancing the monitoring of foreign exchange operations, by requiring that conversion by residents of sum to foreign exchange take place through personal bank cards. Conversion operation depart- ments in banks and foreign exchange bureaus sell foreign exchange to resident individuals by converting sum on the personal bank card of the resident to foreign exchange deposited on an international payment card. In contrast, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia further liberalized the operations of exchange bureaus by cancelling repurchases and unifying the conditions for selling foreign exchange to residents and nonresi- dents. Morocco eased the documentation requirements for nonresidents when they resell surplus dirhams. A series of easing measures were introduced in a number of member countries that expanded the scope of operation of financial intermediaries. The Kyrgyz Republic authorized credit unions, specialized financial and credit institutions, and microfinance and microcredit companies to perform professional foreign currency transactions with individuals and legal entities. Moldova allowed resident nonbank payment service providers and electronic money institutions to perform foreign exchange buying and selling operations related to the issuance of electronic money and the provision of payment services. Myanmar authorized private banks to participate in the newly established interbank foreign exchange market. In contrast, Ghana strictly prohibited offshore foreign exchange deals by resident and nonresident companies, including exporters and nonresident banks, to reduce foreign exchange market pressure by enhancing the repatriation of foreign exchange earnings and the use of the domestic currency. Although the majority of members refrain from restricting exchange rate spreads and commissions in the interbank market, several countries imposed new or additional restrictions in this area. Pakistan limited exchange companies’ (both categories A and B) spreads between the buying and selling rates of foreign cur- rencies to 25 paisas. Iraq capped authorized banks’ spreads at ID 10 per U.S. dollar over the exchange rate at which they may buy foreign exchange at the Central Bank of Iraq currency selling window. Egypt progres- sively tightened the limits on bid-ask spreads in the interbank and spot markets. On the easing side, China raised the bid-ask spread for renminbi–U.S. dollar spot and interbank transactions and allowed banks to base their exchange rate quotes on supply and demand in the market. Among the countries reporting controls on interbank foreign exchange pricing are Botswana, China, Haiti, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Nigeria, Tanzania, and Zambia. During the reporting period, Egypt tightened the interbank bid-ask spread to ±1 piastre around the weighted average of the latest auction held by the Central Bank of Egypt; at the same time, an insufficient supply of foreign exchange at the daily exchange rate fixed by the central bank contributed to the development of a parallel foreign exchange market. Many of the spread limits are agreed upon among market participants in the context of market making or other ad hoc agreements. These limitations are generally implemented in the context of fixed or stabilized exchange rate arrangements but may also be found in countries with floating exchange rate arrangements. There were several other developments in currency pricing. China further widened the interbank renminbi– U.S. dollar trading fluctuation band from ±1 percent to ±2 percent around the central parity released on the same day by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The Bank of the Republic of Burundi set a fluctua- tion margin on foreign currency buying and selling transactions by commercial banks and exchange bureaus of ±1 percent of the reference rate it publishes each morning. Other Measures Most of the changes in other measures during the reporting period refer to forward and swap operations (Table 8.a), exchange rate structure (Table 8.b), and taxes and subsidies on foreign exchange transactions (Table 8.c). 28 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 • Forward and swap operations. There was continued easing of forward transactions. Sri Lanka eliminated the 90-day limit on the maturity of forward foreign exchange contracts. Malaysia allowed residents to under- take anticipatory hedging involving ringgit for financial account transactions and allowed nonresidents to do so for current account transactions with licensed onshore banks, except licensed international Islamic banks. In contrast, to decrease banks’ heavy reliance on short-term foreign funding, Korea reduced the limit on foreign exchange derivatives contracts from 40 percent to 30 percent of bank capital for domestic banks and from 200 percent to 150 percent for foreign bank branches. Algeria did not report having a forward exchange market. • Exchange rate structure. There were several changes in the number of countries maintaining a dual or multiple exchange rate structure (see Table 8.b). Currently, 22 countries are classified as having more than one exchange rate, of which 16 are dual and 6 multiple. This is a result mainly of specific exchange rates applied for certain transactions or actual or potential deviations of more than 2 percent between official and other exchange rates. Madagascar’s exchange rate structure was changed back to unitary from dual after the suspension of a preferential exchange rate for oil importers. Georgia also eliminated its multiple cur- rency practice through unification of the government–central bank and market rates. Myanmar abolished the use of foreign exchange certificates as part of its plan to remove its multiple exchange rate structure. In contrast, Sudan and Venezuela implemented tightening measures. Finally, a series of neutral changes were recorded: Latvia adopted the euro; the government of Zambia rebased the kwacha by removing three zeros; and Venezuela took several steps to improve its multiple exchange rate structure. • Taxes and subsidies on foreign exchange transactions. There were more than twice as many tightening (7) as easing (3) changes with respect to foreign exchange subsidies and taxes (see Table 8.c). Overall, 32 emerg- ing market and developing economies (the same as the previous year) tax foreign exchange transactions. Bolivia introduced a foreign exchange tax of 0.7 percent on a temporary basis for 36 months and doubled the taxable base of exchange bureaus’ foreign currency sales. The measure is intended to increase tax rev- enues, further the dedollarization process, and contain the profitability of the private financial sector. Palau imposed a 4 percent tax on remittance outflows by foreign workers, which was also aimed at increasing pub- lic revenues as well as enhancing anti-money-laundering and combating the financing of terrorism efforts. Ukraine levied a 0.5 percent foreign exchange tax on all cash and noncash foreign exchange purchases (net of transaction fees) by residents and nonresidents for the two-part objective of increasing tax revenues and discouraging capital outflows during a time of political and economic turbulence. In response to changes in capital inflows, Brazil continued to take steps that ease the taxing of foreign-exchange-related transac- tions. At the same time, the tax was increased on expenditures and ATM withdrawals abroad using credit cards, operations abroad with debit cards and traveler’s checks, and foreign exchange operations related to prepaid cards, providing a disincentive for spending abroad. In contrast to the broad use of foreign exchange taxes, only 2 countries have foreign exchange subsidies in place, Serbia where the subsidies target certain agricultural and food exports and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Sudan discontinued its foreign exchange subsidies during the reporting period. Table 8.b. Changes in Currency and Exchange Rate Structures, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 Country Georgia Latvia Change Effective March 15, 2013, an amendment was introduced to the 2010 agreement between the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and Treasury Service of the Ministry of Finance on the Participation in the Real Time Gross Settlement System, which eliminates Georgia’s multiple currency practice. The 2013 amendment ensures that foreign exchange transactions between the government and the NBG are priced at the market exchange rate of the day when the foreign exchange order is submitted to the NBG. Effective January 1, 2014, the currency of Latvia changed from the Latvian lats to the euro when Latvia joined the European Economic and Monetary Union. Type Easing Neutral International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 29 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8b (concluded) Country Madagascar Myanmar Myanmar Sudan Sudan Venezuela Venezuela Zambia Zimbabwe Change Effective July 19, 2013, the preferential exchange rate previously introduced for oil importers (MGA 2,000 per U.S. dollar) was suspended. Effective April 1, 2013, with the aim of eliminating multiple currency practices, a plan to redeem foreign exchange certificates was announced to the public on March 21, 2013, and the process for their redemption was established April 1, 2013. Foreign exchange certificates were used for payments until June 30, 2013. Effective March 31, 2014, the process for redemption of foreign exchange certificates was successfully completed. Effective September 24, 2013, the Central Bank of Sudan (CBOS) modified Sudan’s multiple exchange rate regime adopted June 24, 2012, to include (1) a central rate of SDG 5.68 per U.S. dollar (previously SDG 4.42) that also applies to fuel imports, payment of government obligations, and customs valuation; (2) a gold exchange rate used by the CBOS in its gold transactions; and (3) a managed floating rate (MFR) used mainly by the commercial banks and exchange bureaus. The MFR applies to all other transactions and has two components: (1) an indicative rate; and (2) a flexibility factor that allows banks to deviate from the average of the indicative rate and the incentive by ±4%. Effective September 24, 2013, the variable incentive premium set by the CBOS of 15% from the average of the indicative rate was eliminated. Effective February 8, 2013, the implicit rate of Bs 5.30 per U.S. dollar that applied to purchases and sales in bolívares of foreign-currency- denominated securities issued by Venezuela, its decentralized entities, and other entities in the Transaction System for Foreign-Currency- Denominated Securities operated by the Central Bank of Venezuela was discontinued. Effective March 25, 2013, the Transaction System for Foreign-Currency- Denominated Securities was replaced with the Complementary System to the Administration of Foreign Exchange to complement the Commission for the Administration of Currency Exchange system, which supplies foreign exchange at the official rate of Bs 6.30 per U.S. dollar. Access to the Complementary System to the Administration of Foreign Exchange is determined by the central bank, which identifies the industrial sectors authorized to bid for the foreign currencies offered at a particular auction. It is restricted to importers selling food, medicine, and other basic goods. Effective January 1, 2013, the kwacha was rebased by removing three zeros. The rebased kwacha circulated alongside the old currency for six months. Effective January 30, 2014, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe announced the adoption of four additional official currencies: the Australian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, and Japanese yen. Source: AREAER database. Table 8.c. Changes in Exchange Subsidies and Exchange Taxes, January 1, 2013–July 31, 2014 Country Bolivia Bolivia Change Effective January 1, 2013, law No. 291 of September 22, 2012, imposed a tax on the sale of foreign currency (Impuesto a la Venta de Moneda Extranjera) for a period of three years (until September 2015). Effective August 26, 2013, the Impuesto a la Venta de Moneda Extranjera (IMVE) rate for exchange bureaus was equalized with that of financial institutions, 0.70% on foreign exchange sales. The tax base is the sum of all foreign currency sales transactions expressed in local currency. Previously, the taxable base was only 50% of exchange bureaus’ foreign currency sales. The sale of foreign currency by the Central Bank of Bolivia and by taxpayers to the Central Bank of Bolivia is exempt from the IMVE. 30 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Type Neutral Neutral Easing Neutral Tightening Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Type Tightening Tightening A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 8c (concluded) Country Brazil Brazil Brazil Brazil Brazil Palau Sudan Sudan Ukraine Change Effective June 4, 2013, the financial operations tax (Imposto sobre Operações Financeiras [IOF]) was reduced to zero on nonresidents’ fixed- income instruments, and the derivative margin deposit was reduced to zero (previously 6%). Effective June 13, 2013, the IOF was reduced to zero on foreign exchange derivative transactions (previously 1%). Effective December 24, 2013, the IOF was reduced to zero (previously 1.5%) on trades linked to overseas depository receipts issued by Brazilian companies. Effective December 27, 2013, the IOF was increased to 6.38% on expenditures and ATM withdrawals abroad using credit cards, operations with debit cards and traveler’s checks cashed abroad, and foreign exchange operations related to prepaid cards. Effective June 4, 2014, the maximum maturity of external loans subject to 6% IOF rate was reduced from 360 days to 180 days. Effective November 1, 2013, remittance outflows by foreign workers working in Palau are subject to a 4% tax. Effective September 23, 2013, exchange subsidies for fuel imports were discontinued. Effective September 23, 2013, a SDG 2.9 per U.S. dollar subsidized rate for wheat was eliminated. Effective April 1, 2014, the law on Mandatory Pension Insurance Tax imposed a 0.5% foreign exchange transaction tax in order to replenish the state pension fund. The tax applies to all cash and noncash foreign exchange purchases (net of transactions fees) by residents and nonresidents in Ukraine. Banks must accrue, withhold, and remit to the Special Fund of the State Budget the proceeds of the tax. Banks must also report monthly to the National Bank of Ukraine the amount of accrued/withheld foreign exchange transaction tax. Type Easing Easing Easing Tightening Easing Tightening Easing Easing Tightening Source: AREAER database. Note: Includes changes from January 1, 2013, through July 31, 2014. Member Countries’ Obligations and Status under Articles VIII and XIV This section provides an overview of the status of IMF members’ acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2(a), 3, and 4, of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement and of the use of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV. It also describes recent developments in restrictive exchange measures—namely, exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices (MCPs) subject to IMF jurisdiction under Articles VIII and XIV and measures imposed by members for national or international security reasons. This section refers to changes in restrictive exchange measures in 2013 and to members’ positions as reported in the latest IMF staff reports as of December 31, 2013.13 Of 188 members of the IMF, 168 have accepted Article VIII status (Figure 1). In accepting the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2(a), 3, and 4, members agree not to impose restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions or engage in discriminatory currency arrangements or MCPs, except with IMF approval. Following the period of increased acceptance in the first half of the 2000s, the share of Article VIII members has remained flat at about 90 percent of total members in recent years. The most recent acceptance by a member of Article VIII obligations was in 2011. The number of Article VIII members with restrictive exchange measures decreased by 1 to 31 in 2013.14 13 Underlying data for this section also cover exchange measures implemented in countries whose information is not publicly available in the AREAER database except measures included in Table 10. 14 The AREAER does not indicate whether the IMF has approved such measures. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 31 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Figure 1. IMF Members That Have Accepted the Obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2(a), 3, and 4, 1945–20131 Source: AREAER database. 1 As of December 31, 2013. The latest IMF staff reports indicate that many members with Article XIV status maintain restrictions subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII.15 Among the members with Article XIV status, 3 countries main- tain no explicitly identified restrictions. Two countries maintain both Article XIV exchange measures and Article VIII restrictions. The exchange arrangements for Albania, South Sudan, and Tuvalu are under IMF staff review, and that of Somalia will be reviewed in due course. The remaining countries maintain exchange measures under Article VIII only. Exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices Restrictive Exchange Measures The overall number of restrictive exchange measures continued to increase among Article VIII members, while the number remained unchanged among Article XIV members (Table 9). The total number of exchange restrictions or MCPs increased by 8, to 57, among Article VIII countries as a result of 13 newly introduced or identified measures (8 exchange restrictions and 5 MCPs) and 5 eliminations (2 exchange restrictions and 3 MCPs). Several restrictive measures were identified for Belarus, Cyprus, Sudan, and Zambia, reflect- ing the countries’ responses to a balance of payments crisis and improved reporting by member countries. Among Article XIV members, an equal number introduced and eliminated restrictive measures (6 exchange restrictions and 2 MCPs). In particular, Myanmar eliminated almost all previously identified restrictions (5 exchange restrictions and 2 MCPs) and replaced them with 2 exchange restrictions and 2 MCPs targeting more specific types of transactions, which effectively liberalized the system. The composition of members maintaining exchange restrictions or MCPs has changed only slightly. In 2013, Cyprus introduced 3 exchange restrictions. Georgia and Hungary eliminated MCPs, so their exchange arrangements are now free of restrictions. In the other countries previously identified as having restrictions, some measures continue to give rise to exchange restrictions or MCPs subject to IMF jurisdiction, and addi- tional measures were introduced (for example, in Iraq and Sudan) or partially eliminated (for example, in 15 The member countries that avail themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV are Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Kosovo, Liberia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nigeria, São Tomé and Príncipe, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria, Turkmenistan, and Tuvalu. 32 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Colombia). The stable number of Article VIII members and an increased number of restrictions implemented by them led to a rise in the average number of measures to 2.5 a member country in 2013. Article XIV mem- bers still maintain a greater number of restrictive measures, on average, than Article VIII members, but the difference narrowed marginally. The use of restrictions on payments for current invisible transactions increased noticeably in 2013. Four of the new measures are attributable to Iraq, which limited the availability of foreign exchange for firms, individuals, banks, money transfer companies, and money exchange bureaus. In other countries (Myanmar, Sudan, Zambia), a tax certification requirement for transfers of investment income and profits was found to give rise to exchange restrictions, because such measures limit the availability of foreign exchange for cur- rent account transactions based on noncompliance with obligations unrelated to the proposed transaction. Cyprus imposed limits on nonresident transfers of recently acquired net income from current international transactions and investment income. Colombia phased out a tax on outward remittances of nonresident profits earned before 2007. Other types of newly identified exchange restrictions include limits on payments for certain import activi- ties (Belarus, Cyprus) and on remittances abroad (Cyprus, Myanmar) and allocation of foreign exchange to certain priority items (Sudan). Exchange restrictions eliminated in 2013—all in Myanmar—include advance import deposit requirements, margin requirements, general restrictions on the availability and use of foreign exchange and on payments and transfers related to invisibles, taxes on exchange transactions, and payments for invisibles. A majority of new MCPs arise from official action that can give rise to potential or actual differentials between exchange rates used in different exchange markets or required for certain official transactions. These practices can arise when there is no mechanism in place to prevent a deviation of more than 2 percent between auction and interbank rates (Belarus), official and commercial rates (Belarus, Sudan), or public and parallel market rates (Myanmar, Sudan), when official actions cause such deviations. Georgia eliminated an MCP arising from the lagged calculation of the official rate that is used for for- eign exchange transactions between the government and the central bank. Hungary eliminated its MCP by discontinuing the program of foreign exchange sale tenders. Other changes in exchange measures giving rise to MCPs are an exchange tax (Colombia, eliminated in 2013) and a multiple-price auction (Myanmar, introduced in 2013). Multiple-price auctions are often implemented until a well-functioning interbank market develops. Table 10 describes restrictive exchange measures by members as indicated in the latest IMF staff reports as of December 31, 2013. Excluded from Table 10 are member countries that have not consented to publication of such measures described in unpublished IMF staff reports. Exchange measures maintained for security reasons Some member countries impose measures solely for national or international security reasons, which can give rise to exchange restrictions under IMF jurisdiction. These restrictions, like others, require prior IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a). However, because the IMF does not provide a suitable forum for discussion of the political and military considerations leading to measures of this kind, it established a special procedure for such measures to be notified and approved.16 In total, 12 members notified the IMF of measures introduced solely for security reasons during 2013, while 9 members did so during January–May 2014. For the most part, notification was from advanced economies. In general, the restrictions involved take the form of financial sanctions to combat financial terrorism or financial sanctions against certain governments, entities, and individuals in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions or EU regulations. 16 See Decision No. 144-(52/51) in Selected Decisions and Selected Documents of the International Monetary Fund, Issue 36 (Washington: IMF, 2012). International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 33 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 34 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Table 9. Exchange Restrictions and Multiple Currency Practices, January 1–December 31, 2013 Member under Article XIV Status Article VIII Status 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Total 2012 2011 2013 Total number of restrictions and multiple currency practices maintained by members1 52 54 54 43 49 57 95 103 111 Restrictions on payments for imports Advance import deposit and margin requirements Restrictions on advance payments Requirement to balance imports with export earnings Restrictive rules on the issuance of import permits Tax clearance requirements Other Restrictions on payments for invisibles Education Medical services Travel services Income on investment Tax clearance requirement Exchange tax on profits Interest on deposits and bonds Profits and dividends Foreign exchange balancing for profit remittances Clearance of debts to government to remit profits Other Restrictions on amortization on external loans Restrictions on unrequited transfers Wages and salaries Clearance of debt to government to remit wages Family remittances Other Nonresident accounts Transferability of frozen or blocked deposits Limits on use of foreign currency accounts Restrictions arising from bilateral or regional payment, barter, or clearing arrangements: Unsettled debit balances Restrictions with general applicability Administered allocations, rationing, and undue delay Payments above a threshold Tax clearance certificates 4 6 4 2 3 5 6 9 9 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 16 1 1 4 8 2 1 1 15 1 1 3 8 2 1 1 19 1 1 3 9 3 1 1 22 1 1 5 13 3 1 3 4 1 1 21 1 1 4 13 3 1 3 4 1 3 27 1 1 3 16 6 2 8 6 6 1 5 1 1 2 1 1 5 1 1 2 1 7 3 1 3 1 3 1 3 2 2 3 5 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 4 1 2 1 3 5 1 4 1 1 3 2 1 2 2 5 2 2 4 4 1 6 4 6 2 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 4 3 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 4 3 1 2 4 3 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 8 3 10 3 7 4 9 4 9 4 10 7 17 7 19 7 17 4 5 3 3 3 4 7 8 7 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 9 (concluded) Exchange taxes Surrender of export earnings to have access to foreign exchange Other Multiple currency practices Exchange taxes Exchange subsidies Multiple-price auctions Differentials between official, commercial, and parallel rates Margin requirements Non-interest-bearing blocked accounts Non-interest-bearing advance import deposits Exchange rate guarantees Memorandum items: Member under Article XIV Status Article VIII Status 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1 1 1 3 3 3 Total 2012 4 2011 4 2013 4 0 3 14 4 2 7 1 0 2 14 4 3 6 1 2 14 4 2 7 1 1 1 18 1 1 2 11 1 1 1 1 1 21 1 1 2 14 1 1 1 1 1 23 1 2 17 1 1 1 1 3 32 5 1 4 18 1 1 1 1 1 4 35 5 1 4 21 1 1 1 1 1 3 37 4 1 5 23 1 1 1 1 Average number of restrictions per member Number of countries with restrictions 3.7 14 3.9 14 3.9 14 1.4 31 1.5 32 1.8 31 2.1 45 2.2 46 2.5 45 Sources: AREAER database; and IMF staff reports. 1 Includes 188 members and 3 territories: Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and Hong Kong SAR (China). Table 10. Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices by Country, as of December 31, 2013 Country1 Albania Angola Aruba Bangladesh Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultations with Albania states that, as of November 19, 2012, Albania still avails itself of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV and maintained an exchange restriction in the form of outstanding debit balances on inoperative bilateral payments agreements, which were in place before Albania became an IMF member. These relate primarily to debt in nonconvertible and formerly nonconvertible currencies. The IMF staff is currently assessing Albania’s exchange system for potential exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices. (Country Report No. 13/7) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV Consultation and First Post-Program Monitoring with Angola states that, as of July 2, 2012, Angola maintained exchange measures pursuant to the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, and a number of measures subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII. The measures maintained pursuant to Article XIV are (1) limits on the availability of foreign exchange for invisible transactions, such as travel, medical, or educational allowances; and (2) limits on unrequited transfers to foreign-based individuals and institutions. In addition, Angola maintained two exchange restrictions subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII, Section 2. These are (1) limits on the remittances of dividends and profits from foreign investments that do not exceed US$1 million; and (2) the discriminatory application of the 0.015% stamp tax on foreign exchange operations. Angola also maintained two multiple currency practices arising from: (1) the Dutch foreign exchange auction; and (2) the discriminatory application of the 0.015% stamp tax on foreign exchange operations that are subject to approval under Article VIII, Section 3. (Country Report No. 12/215) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with the Kingdom of the Netherlands—Aruba states that, as of July 12, 2013, Aruba maintained a foreign exchange restriction arising from the foreign exchange tax on payments by residents to nonresidents (1.3% of the transaction value). (Country Report No. 13/258) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Bangladesh states that, as of November 12, 2013, Bangladesh maintained an exchange restriction on the convertibility and transferability of proceeds of current international transactions in nonresident taka accounts. (Country Report No. 13/357) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 35 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 10 (continued) Country1 Belarus Bhutan Bosnia Burundi Colombia Democratic Republic of the Congo Cyprus Ethiopia Fiji Gabon Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report for the Fifth Post-Program Monitoring Discussion with Belarus states that, as of November 26, 2013, Belarus maintained exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices (MCPs) subject to the IMF’s jurisdiction. The exchange restrictions arise from the requirement of a National Bank of the Republic of Belarus (NBRB) permit for (1) advance payments for imports and (2) payments for imports with delivery outside of Belarus. The MCPs arise from (1) the potential deviation by more than 2% of the exchange rates in the OTC market and the Belarusian Currency and Stock Exchange (BCSE), (2) the potential deviation by more than 2% of the exchange rates in the OTC market and the BCSE exchange rate or the official exchange rate with respect to the mandatory resale of unused foreign exchange by resident legal entities and foreign exchange amounts subject to mandatory sale requirement, and (3) broken cross- rates among the currencies for which the NBRB establishes official exchange rates with monthly frequency with respect to the mandatory resale of unused foreign exchange by resident legal entities and foreign exchange amounts subject to mandatory sale requirement. (Country Report No. 14/18) The IMF staff report for the 2011 Article IV consultation with Bhutan states that, as of May 13, 2011, Bhutan maintained exchange restrictions subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a). (Country Report No. 11/123) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Bosnia and Herzegovina states that, as of September 12, 2012, Bosnia and Herzegovina maintained restrictions on the transferability of balances and interest accrued on frozen foreign currency deposits, subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII. (Country Report No. 12/282) The IMF staff report for the Second Review under the Extended Credit Facility Arrangement with Burundi states that, as of January 31, 2013, Burundi maintained one multiple currency practice (MCP) that is inconsistent with Article VIII, Section 2(a): the exchange rate used for government transactions differs at times by more than 2% from market exchange rates. (Country Report No. 13/64) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Colombia states that, as of January 9, 2013, Colombia maintained an exchange restriction subject to IMF approval under Article VIII arising from the special regime for the hydrocarbon sector. The multiple currency practice and exchange restriction arising from a tax on outward remittances of nonresident profits earned before 2007 and retained in the country for less than five years phased out on January 1, 2012. (Country Report No. 13/35) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) states that, as of September 6, 2012, the DRC maintained measures that give rise to one exchange rate restriction and one multiple currency practice (MCP) subject to IMF approval. The exchange restriction involves an outstanding net debt position against other contracting members under the inoperative regional payments agreement with the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. The MCP relates to a fixed exchange rate set quarterly applying to transactions through a bilateral payments agreement with Zimbabwe. (Country Report No. 13/94) The IMF staff report for the Request for an Arrangement Under the Extended Fund Facility states that, as of April 30, 2013, Cyprus maintained three exchange restrictions subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a), arising from (1) limits on payments for certain transactions involving normal business activity, including the import of goods and services; (2) limitations on certain invisible payments by individuals, including firm limits on remittances for living expenses for certain family members; and (3) limits on access to certain funds deposited with financial institutions in Cyprus that prevent nonresidents from accessing, converting, and transferring out of Cyprus recently acquired net income from current international transactions and investment income. (Country Report No. 13/125) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Ethiopia states that, as of August 29, 2013, Ethiopia maintained four restrictions on the payments and transfers for current international transactions, which relate to (1) the tax certification requirement for repatriation of dividend and other investment income; (2) restrictions on repayment of legal external loans and supplies and foreign partner credits; (3) rules for issuance of import permits by commercial banks; and (4) the requirement to provide a clearance certificate from the National Bank of Ethiopia to obtain import permits. (Country Report No. 13/308) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Fiji states that, as of October 21, 2013, Fiji maintained exchange restrictions subject to Article VIII arising from the Fiji Revenue and Customs Authority tax certification requirements on the transfer abroad of profits and dividends, and on the proceeds of airline ticket sales, and on the making of external debt and maintenance payments, and from limits on large payments (e.g., oil imports and dividends repatriation of foreign banks). (Country Report No. 13/370) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Gabon notes that, as of January 31, 2013, Gabon levies a tax on all wire transfers, including for the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, which gives rise to an exchange restriction subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a), of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement. (Country Report No. 13/55) 36 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Table 10 (continued) Country1 Ghana Guinea Iceland India Iran Iraq A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Ghana states that, as of May 30, 2013, Ghana maintained a multiple currency practice (MCP), subject to IMF approval, whereby the Bank of Ghana calculates a reference rate and uses it for certain official transactions without having a mechanism in place to ensure that this exchange rate does not differ from the rate prevailing in the market by more than 2%. (Country Report No. 13/187) The IMF staff report for the Second Review under the Three-Year Arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility with Guinea states that, as of May 7, 2013, Guinea maintained a multiple currency practice, as the value of the official rate lags the weighted average commercial bank rate on which it is based by one day. (Country Report No. 13/192) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation and Third Post-Program Monitoring Discussion with Iceland states that, as of July 18, 2013, Iceland maintained exchange restrictions arising from limitations imposed on the conversion and transfer of (1) interest on bonds (whose transfer the foreign exchange rules apportion depending on the period of the holding), (2) the principal payments from holdings of amortizing bonds, and (3) payments on the indexation of principal from holdings of amortizing bonds. (Country Report No. 13/256) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with India states that, as of December 27, 2012, India maintained the following restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, which are subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a): (1) restrictions related to the nontransferability of balances under the India-Russia debt agreement; (2) restrictions arising from unsettled balances under inoperative bilateral payments arrangements with two eastern European countries; and (3) a restriction on the transfer of amortization payments on loans by nonresident relatives. (Country Report No. 13/37) The IMF staff report for the 2011 Article IV consultation with the Islamic Republic of Iran states that, as of July 6, 2011, Iran maintained one exchange restriction and a multiple currency practice (MCP) subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII, Sections 2(a) and 3. (1) The exchange restriction arises from limitations on the transferability of rial profits from certain investments under the Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Act (FIPPA) and from limitations on other investment-related current international payments under this act. (2) The MCP arises from the budget subsidies for foreign exchange purchases in connection with payments of certain LCs opened prior to March 21, 2002, under the previous multiple exchange rate system. (Country Report No. 11/241) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Iraq states that, as of April 30, 2013, Iraq maintained eight exchange restrictions and one multiple currency practice (MCP) subject to IMF jurisdiction and approval. The exchange restrictions are (1) the limitation that corporates can purchase foreign exchange in the auction for import transactions only; (2) limitation on the availability of foreign exchange cash for individuals (i.e., one request a month, this measure gives rise to an exchange restriction because the limitation of one request a month constitutes a governmental limitation on the availability of foreign exchange for payments and transfers by individuals for current international transactions, e.g., basic allocations for tourist or business travel abroad, family living expenses, etc. Furthermore, because of the limitation on the availability of foreign exchange in the non-cash auction to corporates and only for trade transactions, individuals who need to make payments and transfers for current international transactions beyond the maximum limit have no alternative means or channels to get access to foreign exchange, except for resorting to informal sources.); (3) maximum limits on the availability of foreign exchange cash in the auction for banks (This measure gives rise to an exchange restriction because the maximum cap constitutes a governmental limitation on the availability of foreign exchange for certain payments and transfers, e.g., repatriation of certain investment income by nonresidents, including remittances of profits, dividends or interest. Because of the limitation on the availability of foreign exchange in the non-cash auction by corporates to only trade transactions, they would have no other means or channels to get access to such foreign exchange beyond the maximum limits, except for resorting to informal sources.); (4) maximum limits on the availability of foreign exchange cash in the auction for money transfer companies and money exchange bureaus; (5) the requirement to pay all obligations and debts to the government before proceeds of investments of investors and salaries and other compensation of non-Iraqi employees may be transferred out of Iraq; (6) the requirement to submit a tax certificate and a letter of no objection stating that the companies do not owe any taxes to the government before non-Iraqi companies may transfer proceeds of current international transactions out of the country; (7) the requirement that before non-Iraqis may transfer proceeds in excess of ID 15 million out of Iraq, the banks are required to give due consideration to legal obligations of these persons with respect to official entities, which must be settled before allowing any transfer; and (8) an Iraqi balance owed to Jordan under an inoperative bilateral payments agreement. The MCP arises from the absence of a mechanism to ensure that the official exchange rate and the market exchange rate do not deviate by more than 2 %. (Country Report No. 13/217) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 37 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 10 (continued) Country1 Kyrgyz Republic Malawi Maldives Mongolia Montenegro Myanmar Nepal Nigeria São Tomé and Príncipe Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report for the Fifth Review under the Three-Year Arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility with the Kyrgyz Republic states that, as of November 18, 2013, the Kyrgyz Republic maintained a multiple currency practice, which predates the arrangement, arising from the use of the official exchange rate for government transactions. The official rate may differ by more than 2% from market rates because it is based on the average transaction-weighted rate of the preceding day. In practice, the official and market rates have never differed by more than 2%. (Country Report. No. 13/376) The IMF staff report for the Third and Fourth Reviews under the Extended Credit Facility Arrangement with Malawi states that, as of December 27, 2013, the IMF staff intends to conduct a comprehensive assessment of Malawi’s exchange rate system shortly. (Country Report No. 14/37) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Maldives states that, as of January 22, 2013, Maldives maintained an exchange restriction and a multiple currency practice subject (MCP) to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a), of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, arising from the Maldives Monetary Authority’s policy of rationing its supply of foreign exchange to commercial banks. This rationing by a governmental agency has caused the channeling of foreign exchange transactions for current international transactions to the parallel market where transactions take place at an exchange rate that deviates by more than 2% from the official exchange rate. The more than 2% exchange rate spread gives rise to a MCP subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 3, and also to an exchange restriction given the additional cost involved for obtaining foreign exchange. The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Mongolia states that, as of November 4, 2013, Mongolia maintained two multiple currency practices (MCPs) subject to IMF jurisdiction. First, the modalities of the multi-price auction system give rise to an MCP since there is no mechanism in place that ensures that exchange rates of accepted bids at the multi-price auction do not deviate by more than 2%. In addition, Mongolia has an official exchange rate (reference rate) that is mandatorily used for government transactions (as opposed to the commercial market rate). Therefore, by way of official action, the authorities have created market segmentation. While Order #699 of the Bank of Mongolia issued December 3, 2010, sets forth that the reference rate is determined based on the weighted average of market rates used from 4:00 p.m. of the previous day to 4:00 p.m. of the current day, the IMF staff is of the view that this order does not eliminate the market segmentation and multiplicity of effective rates arising from it. Accordingly, in the absence of a mechanism to ensure that the commercial rates and the reference rate do not deviate by more than 2%, the way the reference rate is used in government transaction gives rise to an MCP. (Country Report No. 14/64) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with the Republic of Montenegro states that, as of July 8, 2013, Montenegro maintained an exchange system free of restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, except with respect to pre-1992 blocked foreign currency savings accounts. (Country Report No. 13/271) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation and First Review under the Staff-Monitored Program with Myanmar states that, as of June 17, 2013, Myanmar still maintained exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices (MCPs) subject to IMF approval under Article VIII. Exchange restrictions subject to IMF jurisdiction arise from (1) requirement of tax certification for authorizing transfers of net investment income abroad, (2) limitations on the remittance abroad of net salaries, (3) an MCP arising from the formal foreign exchange certificate rate, and (4) an MCP arising from the two-way multiple price foreign currency auction. (Country Report No. 13/250) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Nepal states that, as of November 2, 2012, Nepal maintained an exchange restriction under Article VIII, arising due to the limit of 75% placed by the Industrial Enterprise Act on conversion and transfer to foreign currency of salaries on nonresidents from countries where convertible currencies circulate. (Country Report No. 12/326) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Nigeria states that, as of January 24, 2013, multiple prices are a technical characteristic of the CB’s Dutch auction system and can give rise to multiple currency practices. (Country Report No. 13/116) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation and Second Review under the Extended Credit Facility with São Tomé and Príncipe states that, as of December 2, 2013, São Tomé and Príncipe continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements under Article XIV, but does not maintain restrictions under Article XIV. However, it maintained one measure subject to IMF approval under Article VIII: an exchange restriction arising from Article 3(i) and Article 10.1(b) of the Investment Code (Law No. 7/2008) regarding limitations on the transferability of net income from investment. The restriction results from the requirement that taxes and other obligations to the government have to be paid/fulfilled as a condition for transfer, to the extent the requirement includes the payment of taxes and the fulfillment of obligations unrelated to the net income to be transferred. (Country Report No. 14/02) 38 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Table 10 (continued) Country1 Serbia Sierra Leone Sudan Suriname Syria Tunisia Ukraine A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report on the 2013 Article IV consultation with Serbia states that, as of May 31, 2013, Serbia maintained a floating exchange rate system free of restrictions on current international payments and transfers, except with respect to blocked pre-1991 foreign currency savings accounts. (Country Report No. 13/206) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV Consultation and Request for a Three-Year Arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility with Sierra Leone states that, as of October 8, 2013, Sierra Leone maintained one multiple currency practice subject to IMF jurisdiction arising from the applied multiple price Dutch auction system, as there is no formal mechanism in place to prevent spreads of effective rates between winning bids from exceeding 2%. (Country Report No. 13/330) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Sudan states that, as of September 6, 2013, Sudan maintained an exchange restriction and multiple currency practices (MCPs) arising from the cash margin requirement for imports, whereas the previously identified exchange restriction arising from the imposition of the absolute ceiling on foreign exchange for travel has been removed. The IMF staff has identified the following new exchange restrictions and MCPs subject to IMF jurisdiction under Article VIII: (1) an exchange restriction arising from the government’s limitations on the availability of foreign exchange and the Central Bank of Sudan’s (CBOS’) allocation of foreign exchange to certain priority items; (2) an exchange restriction arising from a tax certification requirement in respect of transfers abroad of profits generated by enterprises other than joint-stock companies; (3) an MCP arising from the establishment by the government of a system of multiple exchange rates used for official and commercial transactions, which gives rise to effective exchange rates that deviate by more than 2%; (4) an MCP and exchange restriction arising from the channeling of market participants to the parallel market due to the CBOS’ establishment of exchange rates that do not reflect market conditions and the limitations on availability of foreign exchange; and (5) an exchange restriction and an MCP arising from the imposition by the government of a cash margin requirement for most imports. The authorities have informed the IMF staff that they have removed an exchange restriction on tax certification requirement in respect to transfers abroad of profits generated by enterprises other than joint-stock companies. Also, the authorities informed the IMF staff that they issued a circular to clarify that there are no limitations on sale of foreign exchange by banks. (Country Report No. 13/317) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation with Suriname states that, as of September 9, 2013, Suriname maintained two multiple currency practices arising from the spread of more than 2% between the buying and the selling rates in the official market for government transactions and also from the possible spread of more than 2% between these official rates for government transactions and those in the commercial markets that can take place within the established band. (Country Report No. 13/340) The IMF staff report for the 2009 Article IV consultation with Syria states that, as of February 12, 2010, Syria continued to maintain, under Article XIV, restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions, including administrative allocation of foreign exchange. Syria also maintained exchange measures that are subject to IMF approval under Article VIII: (1) prohibition against purchases by private parties of foreign exchange from the banking system for some current international transactions; (2) a multiple currency practice resulting from divergences of more than 2% between the official exchange rate and officially recognized market exchange rates; (3) a non-interest-bearing advance import deposit requirement of 75%–100% for public sector imports; and (4) an exchange restriction arising from the net debt under inoperative bilateral payments arrangements with the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sri Lanka. (Country Report No. 10/86) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Tunisia states that, as of July 10, 2012, Tunisia maintained a multiple currency practice resulting from honoring exchange rate guarantees extended prior to August 1988 to development banks, which will automatically expire after maturity of existing commitments (total loans covered by these guarantees amount to about US$20 million). (Country Report No. 12/255) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultation and First Post-Program Monitoring with Ukraine states that, as of December 2, 2013, Ukraine maintained multiple currency practices arising from (1) the use of the official exchange rate for certain government transactions; and (2) the requirement that a Ukrainian resident who sells previously purchased foreign exchange not used within 10 days (including when foreign exchange was returned to the resident because the counterparty failed to fulfill its obligations under an import contract) shall transfer 100% of the positive difference from the sale price, on a quarterly basis, to the state budget. (Country Report No. 14/145) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 39 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Table 10 (concluded) Country1 Uzbekistan Zambia Zimbabwe Exchange Restrictions and/or Multiple Currency Practices2 The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Uzbekistan states that, as of February 4, 2013, Uzbekistan maintained at least two exchange restrictions and one multiple currency practice (MCP) subject to IMF jurisdiction. First, undue delays (of up to and exceeding 12 months) in the availability of foreign exchange for payments and transfers for current international transactions give rise to an exchange restriction. Second, the Central Bank of Uzbekistan’s practice of providing only limited foreign exchange for payments and transfers for current international transactions is considered direct rationing and gives rise to an exchange restriction. Third, the practice that no interest is paid on “blocked accounts” for conversion of sum to foreign exchange and that these transactions are delayed beyond the normal 5–7 business days, give rise to an MCP, since the lack of interest payments directly increases the cost of the exchange transaction. (Country Report No. 13/278) The IMF staff report for the 2013 Article IV consultations with Zambia states that, as of November 27, 2013, Zambia maintained two exchange restrictions subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a), effective June 25, 2013 (Statutory Instrument 55 of 2013). The first exchange restriction arises from the requirement that a person making payments of dividends in foreign exchange to a foreign bank account or nonresident person provide a tax clearance certificate and evidence of payment of corporate or income tax. The measure gives rise to an exchange restriction subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a), because it imposes limitations on the availability of foreign exchange for the making of payments of current international transactions based on noncompliance with obligations that are unrelated to the proposed transaction. The second exchange restriction arises from the requirement that a person making payments for royalties, management fees, technical fees, commissions, or consultancy fees in foreign exchange to a foreign bank account or nonresident person be accompanied by evidence of corporate tax payments. This measure similarly gives rise to an exchange restriction subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, Section 2(a) because it imposes limitations on the availability of foreign exchange for the making of payments of current international transactions based on noncompliance with obligations that are unrelated to the proposed transaction. Further, Zambia continues to maintain an exchange restriction, which is subject to IMF approval under Article VIII, arising from limitations imposed by the government on access to foreign exchange for the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, which is evidenced by the existence of external payments arrears accumulated prior to October 4, 1985. (Country Report No. 14/5) The IMF staff report for the 2012 Article IV consultation with Zimbabwe states that, as of September 10, 2012, apart from one remaining exchange restriction subject to IMF jurisdiction arising from unsettled balances under an inoperative bilateral payments agreement with Malaysia, payments and transfers for current international transactions can now be effected without restriction. (Country Report No. 12/279) Source: IMF staff reports. 1 Includes 188 members and 3 territories: Aruba and Curaçao and Sint Maarten (all in the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and Hong Kong SAR (China). 2 The measures described in this table are quoted from IMF staff reports issued as of December 31, 2013, and may have changed since the date when they were reported. The table does not include countries maintaining exchange restrictions or multiple currency practices whose IMF staff reports are unpublished unless the authorities have consented to publication. Regulatory Framework for Foreign Exchange Transactions This section surveys the measures reported by members with respect to the regulatory framework for foreign exchange transactions from January 2013 through July 2014. The measures are divided into five major catego- ries: trade-related measures, current invisible transactions and transfers, account transactions, capital controls, and provisions specific to commercial banks and institutional investors. Trade-Related Measures Unlike for other categories, members reported notably more restrictive trade-related measures from January 2013 through July 2014, in particular for export payments. The total number of exchange and trade controls on imports and exports amounted to 146, of which 59 were easing, 66 were tightening, and 21 were neutral. Imports and import payments Members continued to implement more liberalizing than tightening measures related to imports and import payments. Of 91 reported measures, 44 were easing, 33 were tightening, and 14 were neutral. About a third of the reported measures involve payments for imports, such as advance payments. For example, Turkmenistan 40 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 removed the limit on advance payments for imports by private legal entities. Bangladesh no longer requires a repayment guarantee for advance payments up to a certain level for imports of permissible items. South Africa eliminated a document review requirement for advance payments for transactions below a threshold. India allowed authorized banks to make payments to third parties for imports of goods, with some conditions. Other easing measures include lowering of tariffs and easing of documentation and licensing requirements. There were also a few tightening measures related to payments for imports. In particular, some members lim- ited access to foreign exchange for import payments. For example, Cyprus restricted transfers abroad; Egypt issued a list of priority items for banks’ allocation of foreign exchange; and Iraq imposed charges on sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks for import letters of credit. Sri Lanka imposed, and later eliminated, a 100 percent margin deposit requirement against letters of credit for imports of certain goods. Morocco low- ered the allowable amount for advance payments. However, the majority of tightening measures were tariff increases and import bans on certain products or from particular countries. Exports and export proceeds The number of tightening measures (33) exceeded the number of easing measures (15) and neutral measures (7) among the total 55 reported changes. In particular, there was a notable increase in the use of repatria- tion and surrender requirements. Struggling with significant economic and social issues, Egypt required the repatriation of export proceeds of certain products. To reduce foreign exchange market pressures, India, Madagascar, and Ukraine shortened the repatriation period of export proceeds. Indonesia required receipt of export proceeds through the domestic banking system but did not require conversion to local currency. As for surrender requirements, Ghana established a currency-conversion requirement on receipt of export proceeds, and Ukraine increased the surrender requirement for exporters to 50 percent of export proceeds. Most other tightening measures applied to export quotas, tax, and bans on specific products or to specific countries for national security reasons. As noteworthy exceptions, some members required a priority allocation of export proceeds to a specific sector (Sudan) or prohibited offshore foreign exchange deals by resident and nonresident companies, including exporters and nonresident banks (Ghana). The number of reported easing measures dropped notably from 26 last year to 15 during this reporting period. Angola broadened the conditions under which foreign companies may retain their proceeds abroad. Argentina introduced exemptions from surrender requirements to facilitate the use of export proceeds for debt-service payments. Malawi lowered the percentage of export proceeds subject to the surrender require- ment. Other easing measures took the form of the relaxation of export bans and export quotas. Current Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers This section discusses nontrade payments and transfers that are included in the current account of the bal- ance of payments. This category includes income from investment (for example, profits, dividends, interest); payments for travel, education, and medical expenses, and subscription and membership fees; and unrequited transfers (for example, remittance of nonresidents’ salaries and wages). There was a continued tendency toward substantial easing of measures in this category. During the reporting period, the relevant measures totaled 69—almost the same number as in the previous period—of which 54 were easing, 13 were tightening, and 2 were neutral. This compares with 70 measures in the previous report- ing period, of which 45 were easing measures and 22 were tightening measures. Payments for current invisibles and current transfers Members continued to implement predominantly easing measures on payments for invisible transactions and cur- rent transfers. Of 63 measures related to payments for current invisibles, 50 measures were easing measures and 13 were tightening measures. Quantitative limits on transfers abroad were increased in some countries, including Egypt (for individuals and companies), Fiji (for education and medical expenses), Malawi (for travel expenses), the Philippines (for nontrade current account transactions without supporting documents), Sudan (removal of a restriction on foreign exchange sales for travel), and Cyprus (gradual relaxation of limits for transfers abroad International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 41 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 and restrictions on payments abroad). Some measures were related to quantitative limits on outward remittances and repatriation (Bangladesh, India, Myanmar). Other types of easing measures include easing of documentation requirements (Fiji, Moldova) and exemptions from approval requirements below a certain threshold (China). Tightening measures were, in some cases, introduced amid concern about balance of payments difficulties. Among others, Cyprus prohibited transfers abroad by legal entities and limited individuals’ transfers abroad and payments abroad by credit, debit, and prepaid cards. Many measures were quickly relaxed in steps or were removed. Argentina imposed approval requirements on several types of transactions (processing by financial institutions of foreign transactions by credit and debit cards issued in Argentina), identification requirements (transfers of funds abroad for both the payer and the recipient), and documentation requirements (foreign exchange sales for travel by tourism operators). Approval requirements are also used in Angola (transfers arising from services to the oil sector) and Iceland (dividend payments and interest payments exceeding thresholds). Ukraine strengthened the documentation requirement to verify identity for transactions up to a threshold and required physical identification of individuals for larger amounts. Palau imposed a tax on remit- tances outflows by foreign workers. Although the number of these tightening measures is relatively small, their effect can be significant because they can be more stringent or broad based than easing measures. Proceeds from current invisibles and current transfers Of the relatively limited number of measures related to proceeds from invisible transactions (7), 3 were easing measures, 3 were tightening, and 1 was neutral. Reported changes relate to both repatriation and surrender requirements. China lifted its repatriation requirement on proceeds from service trade abroad within an approved limit; Bangladesh permitted encashment of inward remittances for agency services without approval on a one-time basis; and Malawi lowered the percentage of proceeds from exports subject to a surrender (currency-conversion) requirement. In contrast, Madagascar shortened the deadline to repatriate proceeds from services, and Ukraine extended the implementation of the currency-conversion requirement on transfers exceeding a limit by individuals. Account Transactions The recent trend toward overall easing of regulations on account transactions continued during 2013 and the first half of 2014. Members reported 132 changes in regulations on resident and nonresident accounts, of which 100 were easing measures, 30 were tightening measures, and 2 were neutral. Many of the changes were made by Cyprus in response to financial crises and were subsequently gradually liberalized. Excluding the measures by Cyprus, there were 46 changes in regulations, of which 32 were easing measures and 14 were tightening measures. Resident accounts Easing and tightening measures of regulations on resident accounts took various forms. Of the 70 measures (27 with Cyprus excluded) reported for resident accounts, 55 (21) measures were easing and 14 (6) measures were tightening. Some members raised quantitative limits applicable to withdrawals in foreign currency or balances on accounts abroad. For example, Burundi lifted a ceiling on the withdrawal of foreign currency without supporting documents; Ghana allowed placement of foreign exchange purchased for payments of import bills in a margin account; India raised the maximum resident individuals may remit to their foreign exchange accounts abroad; and Thailand eliminated limits on amounts institutional investors may keep in foreign exchange accounts abroad. Some members authorized foreign exchange accounts domestically (Bangladesh for trade service providers, Moldova with nonbank payment service providers, Zimbabwe in various currency denominations) or abroad (Uzbekistan for legal entities). Tightening measures include, among others, a prohibition against accounts abroad for certain residents (Russia), limits on the withdrawal of banknotes from foreign exchange accounts (Sierra Leone), and quantitative limits on non-trade-related international transfers in foreign exchange by individuals (Ukraine). Cyprus imposed and gradually eased a number of restrictive measures on resident accounts, resulting in a total of 34 easing measures, 8 tightening measures, and 1 neutral measure. Specifically, it imposed quan- titative limits on transfers abroad within the normal business activity of the customer and on presentation 42 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 of supporting documents. Before the imposition of these restrictive measures in March 2013, there were no restrictions on the maintenance of resident and nonresident accounts, and all balances could be freely transferred abroad. By mid-2014, many measures were relaxed or removed. The transfer limit was eventu- ally raised to €1 million a transaction in October 2013. Approval is still required for amounts exceeding the thresholds and is based on a review of the documents justifying the transfer and the liquidity. Cyprus also imposed and subsequently eliminated restrictions on individuals’ payments abroad via debit, credit, and prepaid cards; daily limits on cash withdrawals from bank accounts; a ban on cashing checks; a ban on terminating fixed-term deposits before maturity; a ban on opening accounts for new customers; restric- tions on transfers between accounts in credit institutions in Cyprus; and limits on noncash payments and transfers of deposits or funds to an account held in another credit institution within Cyprus. Funds trans- ferred to Cyprus from abroad were exempt from restrictive measures. All measures were applied equally to resident and nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts The number of reported measures for nonresident account transactions was smaller than for resident account transactions. Of 62 total measures (19 excluding those by Cyprus) reported for nonresident accounts, 46 (12) were easing, 15 (7) were tightening, and 1 was neutral. The measures implemented by Cyprus are the same as the ones described for resident accounts in the previous paragraph. As for account transactions, the types of measures vary by member. Easing measures include higher limits on transfers related to living expenses in Iceland, authorization for nonresident legal entities and individuals to open payment accounts with resident nonbank payment service providers in Moldova, broader sources of funding for nonresidents’ domestic cur- rency accounts in the Philippines, and a broader range of investments for nonresidents’ securities investment accounts in Sri Lanka. India relaxed some regulations on interest rates on nonresident deposits in August 2013 to attract more capital inflows but reversed most of them in March 2014. For example, interest rates on nonresident rupee deposits were delinked from domestic deposit rates but became subject to a ceiling set by comparable domestic rupee deposits. Capital Controls The trend toward overall greater liberalization of capital transactions continued against a backdrop of slow global recovery and more volatile capital flows. Advanced economies grew at a slow pace in 2013, as in 2012, but unlike in 2012, growth moderated in emerging market and developing economies during 2013. Global growth moderated more than expected in the first quarter of 2014, and new geopolitical tensions are expected to have an adverse effect on growth outcomes for 2014. Capital flows to emerging markets were about the same in 2013 as in 2012. However, the flows were marked by greater volatility. Although the situation in Europe stabilized, volatility increased in early 2013 following the announcement in May of the tapering of the U.S. monetary stimulus. This resulted in depreciation of exchange rates and a rise in interest rates as inflows to emerging mar- kets reversed. In another bout of volatility in late 2013 and early 2014, investors focused on countries with large external financing needs or macroeconomic imbalances. Countries responded with tighter monetary policy, capital flow measures, foreign exchange intervention, and in some cases fiscal tightening. Easing measures predominated for both inflows and outflows, despite an increase in the overall number of measures reported. From January 2013 through July 2014, IMF members reported 251 measures compared with 202 during the previous period (January 2012–August 2013).17 Of the total, 169 measures (about 67 percent) were directed toward easing capital flows, similar to the previous reporting period (66 percent). Of the remaining measures, 67 (about 27 percent) were tightening measures, and the rest (about 6 percent) were deemed neutral. 17 Both these periods reflect a large number of changes reported by Cyprus. Cyprus, to deal with its economic crisis, imposed wide-ranging restrictions in March 2013 that significantly constrained capital transactions across many categories. Subsequently, as conditions improved, restrictions were gradually eased starting as early as April 2013. The AREAER records the imposition of these restrictions and their step-by-step removal across many categories of transactions, thereby showing a large number of measures taken by Cyprus. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 43 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 The measures included in this section are also considered to be capital flow management measures (CFMs) as defined by the IMF’s institutional view on the liberalization and management of capital flows.18 In addition to capital controls included in this section, prudential-type measures discussed in the next section may also be CFMs if they were designed to influence capital flows. However, the AREAER does not use this terminology because classifying a measure as a CFM requires substantial background information and considerable judg- ment, which is beyond the scope of the analysis conducted in building the AREAER database. Repatriation and surrender requirements A handful of countries modified repatriation and surrender requirements with respect to capital transactions. About half the measures involved some form of tightening of both inflows and outflows. Facing a steady loss of foreign exchange reserves, Ukraine introduced surrender requirements on foreign currency receipts, including for nonbanks and individual business proprietors. The 50 percent surrender requirement for foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods was extended to all foreign currency proceeds of legal entities (other than authorized banks) and sole business proprietors, as well as to proceeds from authorized banks’ proprietary transactions under foreign economic agreements. Indonesia now requires that proceeds from the issuance of loans abroad be received through domestic banks, though without an obligation to keep the funds in such banks or to convert them to domestic currency. Iceland eased outflows by extending the deadline for residents to deposit foreign exchange proceeds from eligible investments abroad to six months from two weeks before repatriating it or investing it in similar investments abroad. China eased conditions on flows: proceeds from the issuance of shares by an overseas-listed enterprise controlled by foreign shareholders may, after registra- tion, be retained overseas. In addition, foreign exchange funds earned by the domestic equity holding unit of overseas-listed companies controlled by Chinese shareholders from sales of shares or assets of the listed company may be repatriated within two years of receipt instead of six months. Controls on capital and money market instruments The total number of measures to adjust controls on capital and money market instruments more than dou- bled (to 84) compared with the 2013 reporting period. These were the most frequent measures implemented, as they were during the 2012 reporting period. Measures to ease (50) as opposed to tighten (24) controls on capital and money market instruments were aimed at easing outflows more than inflows, as during the previ- ous year. This trend may reflect the globalization and financial deepening of emerging markets and the rise in the share of portfolio flows in total capital flows to emerging markets, particularly since the financial crisis, as investors searched for yield. Notably, the increased share of portfolio flows was driven by issuances by the emerging market corporate sector, rather than by emerging market sovereigns. Measures to ease inflows included increased access to domestic securities markets, greater equity participation by foreigners, and relaxation of requirements for residents to receive the proceeds of sales of foreign securities and debt instruments. To promote further international use of the renminbi, China expanded the renminbi- qualified foreign investors program by permitting Hong Kong subsidiaries of Chinese banks, insurers, and financial institutions as well as renminbi-qualified foreign institutional investors in Taiwan Province of China, the United Kingdom, and Singapore to invest in the domestic securities market using renminbi proceeds raised abroad. In addition, renminbi-qualified foreign institutional investors were permitted to invest in a wider range of financial instruments, including on the stock exchange. After recording a small net outflow the previous year, China increased the investment limit of qualified foreign institutional investors to US$150 bil- 18 CFMs encompass a broad spectrum of measures. For the purposes of the IMF’s institutional view, the term “capital flow management measures” refers to measures designed to limit capital flows. CFMs comprise residency-based CFMs, which encom- pass a variety of measures (including taxes and regulations) affecting cross-border financial activity that discriminate on the basis of residency—also generally referred to as capital controls—and other CFMs, which do not discriminate on the basis of residency but are nonetheless designed to limit capital flows. These other CFMs typically include measures, such as some prudential mea- sures, that differentiate transactions on the basis of currency as well as other measures that typically apply to the nonfinancial sector. The concept of capital controls in the AREAER is quite similar to that of the CFM: it encompasses regulations that limit capital flows and includes various measures that regulate the conclusion or execution of transactions and transfers and the hold- ing of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. See “The Liberalization and Management of Capital Flows: An Institutional View” (Washington: IMF, 2012). 44 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 lion to bolster inflows. With Croatia’s accession to the European Union, Croatian resident entities may issue securities in EU countries by notifying the relevant authority. As global liquidity conditions tightened, India experienced significant portfolio debt outflows; pressure on its currency, equity, and bond markets; and wid- ening of the current account deficit. In response, India took measures to attract additional portfolio inflows and increased and simplified limits for purchases of government debt and eligible corporate debt instruments by foreign institutional investors, qualified foreign investors, and long-term investors. The Kyrgyz Republic allowed nonresidents to invest in National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic notes and to purchase government treasury bills and bonds. Tajikistan liberalized several inward transactions, including the issuance of securities abroad by residents. Thailand increased the scope of foreign equity participation in securities and asset man- agement companies. When its international reserves doubled under an IMF-supported program, Bangladesh eliminated the one-year holding period for nonresident investors buying government bonds. South Africa permitted certain unlisted companies to list overseas or to raise foreign loans and capital. Measures to tighten inflows included reserve requirements on nonresident holdings and stricter regulation of portfolio inflows. Portfolio flows into Uruguay surged owing to a new investment-grade rating, wider inter- est rate differentials, and an improvement in global risk appetite. To fend off the adverse macro-financial consequences of large capital inflows, Uruguay increased the reserve requirement on nonresidents’ holdings of central bank securities and imposed a similar requirement on government securities denominated in local currency and inflation-indexed units. Vietnam introduced requirements that inward portfolio investments be executed through local currency accounts at a local bank. Easing outflow measures relaxed conditions on portfolio investment abroad by residents. With strong eco- nomic growth supported by hydrocarbon exports and accompanied by a current account surplus and rising international reserves, Bolivia eased the limits on foreign investment by insurance companies. When Croatia joined the European Union, entities from EU member countries became eligible to market securities in Croatia with approval from the relevant authority. Cyprus gradually reversed some of the controls imposed on outward transfers. In particular, it increased, in phases, the limits on depositors’ automatic transfers abroad for normal business activity. China eased the overall limits of insurance companies’ investment in foreign and domestic shares. Fiji relaxed the limit on individuals’ investment overseas and permitted commercial banks to open foreign currency accounts to facilitate such investment. Withdrawal, up to a limit, of investment by nonresidents from sales of shares and assets was delegated to authorized dealers and does not require central bank approval. Malaysian residents may now invest any amount in domestic foreign currency capital market securities, and nonresidents may issue foreign-currency-denominated securities in the domestic market. With a strong economy and a rising peso, the Philippines eliminated the central bank approval requirement, up to a limit, for purchases of foreign exchange for a number of investments abroad, including investment in foreign mutual funds and property. Poland relaxed the limit on open pension funds’ (private pension funds under Pillar II) investment in foreign-currency-denominated assets. Swaziland increased the limit on foreign bonds and debt and money market instruments that resident individuals may purchase. Tajikistan moved to an ex post reporting requirement on several outward resident transactions, including the purchase of foreign securities and shares of investment funds. Experiencing large foreign inflows, Thailand allowed individual and corporate investors to invest in foreign securities through private funds or securities companies without limit, subject to the guidelines of and not exceeding the limit set by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Later, Thailand liberalized investments by institutional investors—that is, the Government Pension Fund, Social Security Fund, provident funds, mutual funds, securities companies, insurance companies, specialized financial institutions, Thai companies with assets of at least B 5 billion, and companies listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand—to allow them to invest in foreign securities abroad up to its own internal limit. Turkey eased regulations on investment services provided by foreign-based financial institutions to residents. Ukraine permitted international financial institutions to issue local currency bonds in the domestic market. Tightening measures on outflows included measures to shore up reserves and ease pressure on the domestic exchange market. To strengthen the effectiveness of capital controls and provide incentives to investors with krona holdings to participate in the central bank’s foreign exchange auctions, Iceland further limited investment options for krona holders: nonresident krona balances may be invested only in securities on the central bank’s exemption list. Argentina reduced the number of days for advance payment on the principal of foreign debt. To deal with the financial crisis, Cyprus imposed temporary limits on the transfer of funds overseas; transfers of amounts above the limit were made subject to approval. India reduced the amount individuals may invest International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 45 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 overseas under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme. Iraq strengthened documentary requirements for the transfer of funds abroad related to sales of securities or shares by nonresidents. Lebanon introduced an approval require- ment for the sale of a host of financial products by banks, financial institutions, financial intermediation com- panies, and collective investment plans. Turkey strengthened the requirements for public disclosure and audits for foreign corporations and required approval of the prospectus or issue documents by the market regulator before the public offering or sale of foreign capital market instruments, depository receipts, and shares issued by foreign corporations that are traded on the stock exchange. In addition, it strengthened regulatory requirements for foreign mutual funds offered in Turkey. Vietnam introduced additional regulations on outward portfolio investments and transfer of original capital and profits from foreign portfolio investments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The trend toward greater easing for such transactions (16 of 20) was up slightly during the past year. About the same number of countries reported changes this reporting period as in the previous period, and the total number of measures reported was very similar, with Cyprus accounting for about a third of the changes reported. One difference was that most of the easing measures applied to outflows. The restrictions on outflows in Cyprus that were imposed in response to the economic crisis also limited derivative transactions. However, as the crisis abated these restrictions were gradually relaxed, allowing such transactions to resume. Malaysia permitted nonresidents to issue foreign-currency-denominated securities in the domestic market. Tajikistan eased regulations on residents’ purchases of foreign exchange to conduct transactions in derivative securities. Turkey eased regulations on investment services provided by foreign- based financial institutions to residents. Other easing measures affected both inflows and outflows. Argentina allowed authorized dealers to engage in arbitrage and swaps with foreign financial entities. Paraguay permit- ted nonresident agents to purchase and sell foreign exchange forward contracts. The Philippines removed the requirement for central bank approval of the sale of foreign exchange for forward contracts without full delivery of principal. Sri Lanka eliminated the 90-day limit on the period of maturity of forward foreign exchange contracts. Lebanon introduced an approval requirement for the marketing of financial derivatives. Korea reduced the limits on banks’ exposures to derivatives contracts. Controls on credit operations Controls on cross-border lending were mostly eased, a pattern similar to that during the previous reporting period. Although the total number of measures was lower, the easing trend was more pronounced, with about 80 percent of measures aimed at relaxing conditions. Controls on cross-border lending were the most com- mon measure during the previous reporting period, but during this reporting period, they took second place to measures on capital and money markets. Easing measures tended more toward inflows than outflows, a reflection of changing external financial conditions, in particular, periods of significant outflows from emerg- ing market economies. The majority of tightening measures targeted inflows. Inflow easing measures were mostly related to external borrowing. India and Serbia accounted for just over half of the measures taken to ease inflows. In response to considerable portfolio outflows and balance of pay- ments pressures, India further liberalized the external commercial borrowing regime. These measures included increased limits under the automatic route and expanded use of external commercial borrowing (for example, the hotel and manufacturing sectors may borrow under this scheme to repay rupee loans for capital expendi- tures up to a limit and under certain conditions; the definition of infrastructure sectors eligible for such bor- rowing was broadened). Use of external commercial borrowing by the aviation sector was extended through March 31, 2015. Serbia also continued liberalizing external borrowing to attract inflows and as part of its gradual liberalization of capital flows. Short-term financial loans from abroad with maturities of more than three months for export financing were expanded beyond agricultural loans; banks were permitted to access short-term financial loans from abroad; resident natural persons were allowed to obtain long-term cross- border financial loans for purposes other than imports of goods and services; and residents were allowed to borrow in dinars from international financial institutions, development banks, and foreign financial institu- tions. Bolivia eased the requirements for public enterprises to obtain external loans. Malaysia allowed resident entities to borrow from their nonresident shareholders, and residents may obtain guarantees, up to a limit, from nonresidents without approval. South Africa permitted certain unlisted companies to borrow from over- 46 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 seas with approval. Sri Lanka introduced a special borrowing program for domestic companies to allow them to borrow up to US$10 million a year and up to US$30 million for a period of three years through December 31, 2015; larger amounts remain subject to approval. Sri Lanka also exempted foreign borrowing of com- mercial banks up to US$50 million each from regulatory limits for three years through December 31, 2015. Tajikistan eased conditions on obtaining commercial credits with maturity greater than a year. Zimbabwe permitted residents to borrow from abroad up to US$1 million with only a registration requirement. About a third of the measures that eased outflows were taken by Cyprus, which had imposed temporary mea- sures on outflows because of the financial crisis. When the situation stabilized, in part as a result of the IMF program, Cyprus gradually relaxed the controls put in place to prevent deposit outflows. Other outflow-easing measures included permitting credit in local currency to nonresidents. Malaysia permitted nonresident finan- cial institutions to offer ringgit trade financing to nonresidents, and Serbia allowed banks to grant credits in dinars to international financial organizations, development banks, and foreign-government-owned financial institutions. Morocco permitted banks to issue guarantees in favor of nonresidents. Tajikistan eased condi- tions on granting commercial credit with maturity greater than one year. Argentina permitted the payment of interest on foreign debt up to five business days before the due date. Tightening measures were mostly related to inflows, unlike last year. Colombia prohibited foreign currency loans to residents from nonresident individuals. Iceland moved to discourage short-term borrowing by requiring central bank approval for borrowing from nonresidents with maturity of less than two years. India tightened the conditions for eligible borrowers to use external commercial borrowing for the refinancing or rescheduling of existing loans. Lebanon prohibited correspondent and custodian banks from some transac- tions on Lebanese Eurobonds, credit-linked notes, and central bank certificates of deposit. Only 2 countries reported measures to tighten outflows. As mentioned above, Cyprus imposed temporary measures to prevent deposit outflows, and Argentina shortened the time frame to make advance payment on principal of foreign debt. Controls on direct investment The liberalization trend continued, albeit with about 70 percent of measures directed at easing conditions compared with 80 percent during the previous reporting period. However, the total number of measures was greater. The number of outflow and inflow easing measures was roughly equal (excluding Cyprus). Inflow easing measures included those that raised automatic threshold levels, broadened permissible sectors, and increased the level of equity participation. Australia, Canada, Mexico, and New Zealand increased the threshold below which certain investments are automatically permitted. South Africa permitted companies listed on the local stock exchange to establish one subsidiary in South Africa for African and offshore operations that are not subject to foreign exchange restrictions. To facilitate further foreign direct investment, South Africa also permit- ted certain unlisted companies to list overseas or to raise foreign loans and capital and companies listed on the local exchange to have a secondary listing or list depository receipt programs on foreign exchanges. Thailand broadened the scope and amount of equity participation in the securities business to include forms of business other than brokerage. Malaysia permitted nonresidents to participate in equity of domestic banks. Argentina extended the window for submission of documents related to capital contributions. Fiji delegated the approval of withdrawal of investment, up to a limit, to authorized dealers from the central bank. A third of outflow easing measures are attributed to Cyprus as it gradually eased its temporary restrictions on outflows. Fiji further relaxed the limit on overseas investment by individuals (family or business) and permit- ted commercial banks to open foreign currency accounts for investments within the prescribed limit. It also permitted the transfer of profits and dividends, up to a limit, by authorized dealers without central bank approval. Iceland extended to six months the time within which residents may reinvest proceeds from invest- ment in securities issued in foreign currency. Tajikistan and Thailand liberalized outward direct investments. South Africa eased some of the rules governing holding companies by permitting parent companies to transfer up to R 2 billion a year to a holding company; additional amounts require approval. Only a handful of countries took measures to tighten inflows and outflows of direct investment. Canada stipulated that future bids by government-owned enterprises for control of a Canadian oil-sands business would be approved on an “exceptional basis only.” Ghana increased the minimum capital requirements for foreign direct investment. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 47 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 The Philippines further tightened the registration requirement on all foreign direct investment. Russia lowered the threshold for automatic investment in credit institutions. Ukraine imposed a surrender requirement of 50 percent on foreign direct investment. India reduced the limit (based on net worth of the resident investor) on foreign direct investment undertaken without approval. In addition, resident individuals also faced a lower limit because the limit under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme was reduced. Firms from Vietnam undertaking outward investment in the gas and petroleum sector faced additional requirements pertaining to bank accounts. Controls on real estate transactions There were a few more measures toward tightening than easing that affected real estate transactions (excluding Cyprus). This is slightly different from the previous year, when almost as many measures were implemented to tighten as ease flows. Singapore and Hong Kong SAR took measures to stem inflows to residential property markets in an attempt to reduce the pressure on real estate prices—both imposed additional stamp duties. In contrast, restrictions on nonresidents’ purchase of agricultural land and forestland were removed in Romania following a transition period after joining the EU. To contain capital outflows, India reduced the limit on transfers related to purchases of real estate abroad and discontinued use of the Liberalized Remittance Scheme for the purchase of real estate abroad. Iceland introduced an approval requirement for the purchase of foreign exchange for the purpose of buying real estate abroad for resettlement to prevent circumvention of the capital controls. Iraq introduced an approval requirement for the transfer of funds abroad related to the sale of prop- erty by nonresidents. Temporary controls imposed by Cyprus also affected real estate transactions, but like those affecting other transactions, they were later eased. Swaziland raised the limit that individuals may invest in real estate abroad with central bank approval. Argentina eased access to the local foreign exchange market to purchase assets overseas by eliminating the central bank’s approval requirement; however, these purchases are subject to Administration of Public Revenue Program approval. Controls on personal transactions More measures were implemented to ease controls on personal transactions than to tighten them (exclud- ing Cyprus). This is somewhat different from the previous year, when the measures were more balanced. Both Colombia and Iceland took steps to reduce inflows. Colombia banned foreign currency loans to residents from nonresidents, whereas Iceland moved to discourage short-term borrowing by requiring central bank approval for loans from nonresidents with a maturity of less than two years. Argentina introduced a central bank approval requirement for credit and debit card transactions related to payments for gambling. India limited outflows of gifts and donations to the limit set by the Liberalized Remittance Scheme. The temporary controls imposed by Cyprus also affected personal transactions, but were gradually eased. Argentina eased access to the local foreign exchange market to purchase assets overseas by eliminating the central bank’s approval requirement; however, these purchases are subject to Administration of Public Revenue Program approval. Fiji allowed automatic access to an emigration allowance up to a limit and increased the limit on transfers related to gifts, maintenance, and wedding expenses. Iceland raised the limits on transfers related to living expenses and eased the conditions for lending to nonresi- dents. Sri Lanka simplified emigrants’ access to the migration allowance. Swaziland eased outflows by increasing the amount individuals may transfer abroad. Serbia eased inflows by allowing borrowing by natural persons from abroad at maturities of more than one year and for purposes other than imports of goods and services. Provisions Specific to Commercial Banks and Institutional Investors This section reviews developments in provisions specific to commercial banks and institutional investors, with a focus on prudential measures that are in the nature of capital controls.19 This category, Provisions specific to the financial sector, covers monetary and prudential measures in addition to foreign exchange controls.20 19 Capital controls and prudential measures are highly intertwined because of their overlapping application. For example, some prudential measures (such as different reserve requirements for deposit accounts held by residents and nonresidents) could also be regarded as capital controls because they distinguish between transactions with residents and nonresidents and hence influence capital flows. 20 Inclusion of an entry in this category does not necessarily indicate that the aim of the measure is to control the flow of capital. 48 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 It includes, among other categories of financial institutions’ transactions, borrowing abroad, lending to non- residents, purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, and regulations pertaining to banks’ and institutional investors’ investments. These provisions may be similar or identical to the mea- sures described in the respective categories of controls on accounts, capital and money market instruments, credit operations, and direct investments if the same regulations apply to commercial banks and institutional investors as to other residents. In such cases, the measure also appears in the relevant category in the sections Capital Controls, Resident, and Nonresident Accounts. Reported measures in the financial sector indicate continued strengthening of the regulatory framework to advance the financial sector reform agenda. There was an increase in the number of measures introduced from January 2013 through July 2014 compared with the previous reporting period. Member countries reported 266 new measures with respect to commercial banks, other credit institutions, and institutional investors—an increase of 16 percent. Most of the increase involved institutional investors, for which the number of reported measures increased more than 70 percent. The measures mostly changed the regulatory framework for com- mercial banks and other credit institutions; of the 266 measures, 197 affected commercial banks and only 69 affected institutional investors. As during the previous reporting period, prudential measures (179) outnumbered capital controls (87). While capital controls were overwhelmingly easing (68), prudential measures mostly had the effect of tightening the regulatory framework (89), compared with 52 easing measures and 38 neutral measures. During the previous reporting period, capital control measures mostly tightened the financial sector regulatory environment; in contrast, during this period more than three times as many measures eased capital controls (68) as tightened them (19). The number of neutral changes introduced remained only slightly below the number during the previous period, indicating a continuation of work to consolidate and update financial sector regulatory and institutional arrangements. The summary of the changes in this category is presented in Table 11. Table 11. Provisions Specific to the Financial Sector, January 2013–July 2014 Provisions Specific to Commercial Banks and Other Credit Institutions Easing Tightening Neutral 47 12 0 48 78 12 Total 59 138 Capital Controls Prudential Measures Provisions Specific to Institutional Investors Tightening Neutral 7 0 11 26 Total 28 41 Easing 21 4 Total 95 90 12 197 25 18 26 69 Total 87 179 266 Source: AREAER database. Commercial banks and other credit institutions Capital controls on commercial banks and other credit institutions were eased with respect to both inflows and outflows, with slightly more measures easing conditions for capital inflows. These measures reflect regu- latory responses in emerging market economies to bouts of capital flow volatility in 2013 and early 2014. • Controls on capital inflows. When India faced large capital outflows, including from the financial sector, it significantly improved the conditions for foreign currency nonresident accounts to attract foreign exchange deposits between August 24, 2013, and March 7, 2014. Banks were exempt from the cash reserve and statutory liquidity ratios on incremental deposits to such accounts with maturities of three years or more, and the interest rate ceiling was increased (the latter measure was partially reversed in March 2014). As part of the financial sector development agenda, nonresident participation in Malaysian banking institu- tions was relaxed. In Vietnam, participation of foreign strategic investors and foreign institutional investors was increased to 20 percent in Vietnamese commercial banks and to 15 percent of the charter capital of Vietnamese credit institutions. Several easing measures affected financial sector external borrowing. Further advancing its capital account liberalization agenda, Serbia allowed short-term financial loans to banks from nonresidents. Uzbekistan switched to registration with the Central Bank of Uzbekistan of external borrow- ing by authorized banks, and Zimbabwe permitted banks to borrow up to US$1 million without Exchange International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 49 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Control approval but continues to require External Loan Coordinating Committee approval for larger amounts. Large capital outflows followed the U.S. Federal Reserve’s tapering announcement, so beginning in May 2013, Peru gradually lowered the reserve requirements on long-term foreign liabilities of commer- cial banks to finance foreign trade operations. • Controls on capital outflows. After an extended period of sustained capital inflows, Tajikistan significantly eased exchange control requirements to require only ex post reporting but no advance approval of foreign direct investment, specific portfolio investments, lending to nonresidents, and accounts opened abroad. Sri Lanka granted general permission to authorized dealers to open and maintain nostro accounts abroad. Serbia further liberalized the use of its currency in capital transactions by allowing banks to extend unlim- ited credit in dinars to international financial organizations, development banks, and foreign governments’ financial institutions. Iceland continued to maintain strict controls on new capital outflows but extended the time frame during which residents may reinvest their existing foreign assets abroad and thus their exemption from the general repatriation requirement. Cyprus significantly relaxed, in several steps, the deposit withdrawal and transfer limitations introduced in March 2013. In contrast to the previous reporting period, only a few measures (12) tightened capital controls, and these affected both capital inflows and outflows almost equally. One of the most notable changes was the introduc- tion of wide-ranging limits on withdrawal of deposits and cross-border transfers in Cyprus in March 2013 to protect financial stability in the face of potentially destabilizing deposit outflows. These restrictions were later eased to reduce the impact on economic activity and were finally eliminated on domestic transactions. Although caps on large cross-border transactions remained in place, restrictions on payments for regular business operations were significantly eased. To protect the business services sector, the operations of foreign banks with international customers were exempted from the restrictions. Argentina prohibited advance pay- ment on the principal of foreign financial debt exceeding 10 business days. This measure was added to the 365-day holding period for new foreign borrowing to reduce foreign exchange market pressure. To reduce reliance on more volatile short-term capital inflows, Korea further tightened the limit on banks’ derivatives positions, and Latvia introduced a liquidity ratio that increases with the share of a bank’s assets funded by nonresident deposits. Lebanon introduced regulatory changes to prevent short-selling operations of Lebanese securities and other money market instruments. With respect to capital outflows, Argentina introduced a limit on forward positions of 10 percent of regulatory capital in February 2014. Argentina also required financial institutions and other local card issuers to obtain Central Bank of Argentina approval of foreign transactions with credit and debit cards issued in Argentina for participation, through international payment networks, in gambling. Iceland also tightened capital controls first introduced in 2008 by removing an exemption to address potential balance of payments drains from the winding up of old bank estates. Venezuela introduced the Complementary System to the Administration of Foreign Exchange to reduce the economic and social effects of foreign exchange market pressure by supplying foreign exchange at the official rate of Bs 6.30 per U.S. dollar, mainly to importers of food, medicine, and other basic goods, as determined by the central bank. Members continued to strengthen the prudential framework of banks’ operations to address the legacy of the global financial crisis and to advance the reform agenda. Almost half the measures that are not considered capital controls tightened existing regulations. Several EU countries reported implementation of the new EU legal framework governing access to the activity, supervisory framework, and prudential rules for credit insti- tutions and investment and incorporating the new global standards on bank capital (Austria, Czech Republic, France, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic).21 A number of measures aimed at strengthening the anti–money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism framework (Argentina, Moldova, San Marino). Argentina also strengthened controls on transfers to and from countries and territories that are considered low-tax jurisdictions. Prudential requirements were revised to enhance the liquidity, solvency, and risk management of commercial banks and other credit institutions in Bolivia, Germany, Kosovo, Malaysia, Oman, and Poland. Armenia introduced new foreign exchange liquidity ratios based on the currency of liabilities, and financial requirements for issuers of over-the-counter derivatives to retail clients were increased 21 Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 (Capital Requirements Regulation) and Directive No. EU/2013/36 (Capital Requirements Directive IV). 50 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 in Australia. Rules on the classification of assets acquired through collection or assignment of receivables were amended in Serbia to facilitate resolution of a large number of nonperforming loans and to prevent them from building further. Reporting and disclosure requirements were tightened to increase transparency and boost confidence in the banking system in Italy, Moldova, and San Marino. To enhance the effectiveness of early intervention in pre- venting banking crises, Austria instituted a requirement that financial institutions prepare and submit restruc- turing and liquidation plans to the Austrian Financial Market Authority. Prudential requirements with respect to the acquisition of shares in banks and related procedural rules were made more stringent in Korea, with the threshold for acquisition by nonfinancial business operators subject to Financial Supervisory Commission approval reduced back to 4 percent from 9 percent, reversing a change made in 2009. In Russia, the threshold for participation in credit institutions without Bank of Russia approval was lowered from 20 percent to 10 percent. Moldova continued strengthening prudential requirements for bank owners; residents of jurisdictions that do not implement international transparency standards may not hold equity shares directly or indirectly, and tools for assessment and ongoing monitoring of the ownership process were put in place. The overwhelming majority of the easing measures not considered capital controls related to reserve require- ments and open foreign exchange position limits (37). Among the remaining 11 measures, in Serbia some revised the regulatory framework for assigning bank receivables to other banks to facilitate cleaning up bank balance sheets. In Aruba, the percentage that defines a qualifying holding of a credit institution’s stake in other firms or institutions was increased from 5 percent to 10 percent. Belarus rolled back a previous limit on loans in foreign exchange except for short-term loans. The credit management fee was eliminated in El Salvador, and previously introduced caps on interest rates in Vietnam were increased. Close to 40 percent of the reported changes in the regulatory framework for commercial banks and other credit institutions were related to reserve requirements, reflecting the importance of this tool to monetary policy and financial stability objectives and as part of the policy responses to increased capital flow volatility.22 Unlike in the previous reporting period, when easing and tightening measures were more balanced, easing measures predominated during 2013 and early 2014. The number of measures also reflects a few countries’ adjustment of their reserve requirements in several steps during the reporting period.23 • To build a macroprudential liquidity buffer against external shocks, Argentina, Haiti, Suriname, Turkey, Uruguay, and the Philippines increased the ratio of required reserves on local and foreign-currency-denom- inated liabilities.24 All of these countries apply different reserve ratios to domestic and foreign currency liabilities. Bolivia introduced a temporary complementary reserve requirement to tighten liquidity in the economy with a view to reducing inflation pressure. The reserve requirement applies to excess reserves in both domestic and foreign currency and is remunerated at a rate of 1.8 percent. The United Kingdom introduced a 0.18 percent non-interest-bearing deposit requirement on banks’ net spot liabilities in foreign currency (that is, the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets). The required deposit is based on the average of reported eligible liabilities over a six-month period in excess of the equivalent of £600 million. To address concerns with respect to consumer credit growth, the Central Bank of Tunisia imposed an additional 50 percent reserve requirement on increases in consumer credit in late 2012. The rate was subsequently reduced to 30 percent in March 2013, and plans were announced to remove the additional reserve requirement as soon as the quarterly rate of coverage reaches 110 percent. The Kyrgyz Republic strengthened the required reserves framework by increasing the penalty for noncompliance. • Reserve requirements were lowered in Maldives and Sri Lanka. As part of their dedollarization efforts, Angola, Armenia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia decreased required reserves on domestic currency liabilities while keeping them higher on foreign exchange liabilities. Brazil reduced to zero the 22 Reserve requirements imposed at different levels or under different conditions for liabilities to residents and nonresidents are considered capital controls. 23 Peru first gradually increased and later decreased its multicomponent reserve requirements in 35 steps, and in addition to gradually increasing maturity-dependent required reserves on foreign exchange liabilities, Turkey introduced a reserve option mechanism, under which a gradually increasing share of required reserves on lira liabilities may be held in foreign currency and gold. The new regime was implemented in several steps, which increased the number of changes significantly. 24 Depending on the policy objective, reserve requirement ratios are often differentiated according to maturity, the denomina- tion of the liability, or the residency of the depositor or lender. (The latter are considered capital controls.) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 51 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 reserve requirement on foreign exchange short positions, a move that aims for a macroprudential liquidity buffer against potential financial shocks from foreign exchange short positions within the banking system. Facing significant outflow pressure, India exempted banks from the cash reserve ratio on nonresidents’ incremental foreign exchange deposits with maturities of three years or more between August 24, 2013, and March 7, 2014. In contrast to the previous reporting period, when Russia set a higher reserve ratio on nonresidents’ liabilities amid persistently high inflation expectations, and with a view to preparing for an influx of capital, a single reserve requirement of 4.25 percent was set for all categories of liabilities subject to reserve requirements. Turkey allowed more choice in the denomination of the currency in which the reserve requirements must be met. Peru extensively varied the average and marginal reserve requirements according to changing external conditions. Reserve requirements on both domestic and foreign exchange liabilities were increased in several steps in the first half of 2013 against a backdrop of sustained capital inflows. As a result of large capital outflows following the Federal Reserve’s tapering announcement, all reserve require- ments were gradually decreased from August 2013 to March 2014. Changes with respect to commercial banks’ exchange rate risk management suggest alignment of the regula- tory framework with new standards and adjustments to increased exchange rate volatility. The Czech Republic now requires credit institutions to report to the Czech National Bank if the net foreign exchange position exceeds a certain percentage of the credit institution’s capital (15 percent for a single currency and 20 percent for all currencies). France aligned its domestic regulations with the new EU financial sector regulatory frame- work and set own funds requirements for banks whose foreign exchange exposures exceed 2 percent of their own funds. Foreign exchange exposure limits, some of which are imposed in an asymmetric manner, were lowered in Honduras and Paraguay to reduce banks’ exchange rate risk and their ability to take a position against the currency.25 In contrast, with the stabilization of financial markets, position limits were increased in Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Argentina also raised the overall net positive foreign exchange position limit from 15 percent to 30 percent of capital. Drawing on the lessons of the global financial crisis concerning the systemic risk banks’ unhedged foreign currency lending to residents may pose, the revision of the regulatory framework for foreign currency lending continued. To reduce the exposure of domestic private households to foreign currency loans Austria revised the risk management guidelines, imposing strict criteria on new foreign currency loans to unhedged private consumers and requiring banks to develop strategies to reduce the volume of outstanding foreign currency loans. Following the 2013 removal of a restriction on foreign currency loans introduced at the height of the domestic-born crisis, Belarus introduced stricter requirements for loans in foreign currency, clarifying that foreign currency loans may be granted to business entities only for settlements with nonresidents and for deliveries of natural gas. Ghana prohibited banks from granting foreign-currency-denominated loans and for- eign-currency-linked credit to customers who do not earn foreign exchange. Poland continued strengthening the regulatory framework for foreign currency lending started in 2012 by requiring banks to extend foreign- exchange-denominated mortgage loans only in the currency of the borrower’s income and to apply stricter creditworthiness standards to foreign exchange credit exposure. In Vietnam, banks must obtain approval from the State Bank of Vietnam to lend in foreign exchange to certain eligible borrowers—for example, those with sufficient foreign exchange to repay the loan. Twelve reported measures (19 fewer than in the previous period) continued modernization and harmoniza- tion of financial sector regulatory norms, with a neutral effect. Austria further updated its financial sector regulations related to the single euro payments area project, which aims to replace current national payment services with a common EU-wide payment service. Argentina unified the definition in the foreign exchange and tax laws of countries not considered cooperating countries for the purposes of fiscal transparency. The regulation on the operation of the interbank leu market on a unique trading platform was approved in Moldova. To implement the monetary agreement with the European Union, San Marino enacted provisions on euro banknotes and coins and related measures to prevent fraud and forgery and adopted an EU directive on payment services to harmonize the national payment system with rules introduced at the EU level. The 25 Asymmetric open foreign exchange position limits are often considered capital controls because they have the effect of influencing capital flows. 52 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 purpose is to provide services within the euro payments area that are secure, competitively priced, easy to use, and reliable, through the introduction of common technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euros. Institutional investors The majority of the reported changes eased regulatory constraints on institutional investors, in contrast to the previous reporting period. As for changes with respect to commercial banks and other credit institutions, prudential measures were mostly tightened, and most capital controls were eased. Twenty-three members reported a total of 69 measures, significantly more changes than during the previous reporting period (40). Of these, 41 changes were prudential measures and 28 were capital controls. With respect to capital controls, the majority of the reported changes relaxed constraints on capital outflows (18 of 28). Regulatory limits on institutional investors’ investments abroad were increased in Bolivia, Croatia, Malaysia, Peru, and Thailand. These changes reflect ongoing capital flow liberalization efforts, relaxation of outflows in the context of large capital inflows, and development of the insurance and pension sectors. Limits on external transfers introduced by Cyprus in March 2013 were subsequently increased, easing the constraints on institutional investors’ international operations. Iceland extended the period during which residents may decide to reinvest their foreign assets before repatriating the funds to Iceland. Among measures to ease controls on capital inflows, Thailand removed the Ministry of Commerce approval requirement for foreign equity participation exceeding 49 percent in the securities business (securities companies and asset management companies), and external borrowing by Vietnamese firms must now be registered only with the State Bank of Vietnam. No changes tightened controls on capital inflows with respect to institutional investors: all such tightening measures affected outflows. Measures that tightened capital controls generally imposed stricter conditions or limits on the investment of pension funds and insurance companies abroad. These measures are considered capital controls because they discriminate against investment in foreign assets by forbidding, or setting lower limits on, institutional investors’ investments abroad compared with similar investments locally. For example, foreign stock exchange mutual fund units that are not registered by the Capital Markets Board may comprise up to 10 percent of pension funds’ portfolios in Turkey. Romania amended and provided a more detailed breakdown of asset categories and corresponding limits for pension funds’ investments abroad. Croatia rede- fined the investment limits on mandatory and voluntary pension funds’ investments abroad, specifying the asset categories and the corresponding limits. Regulations on insurance companies’ real-estate-related opera- tions were tightened in the Czech Republic. Eleven reported measures (6 more than in the previous reporting period) tightened the prudential frame- work for institutional investors’ operations. The stricter conditions implemented on institutional investors’ operations aim to enhance the stability of the financial system. More stringent prudential limits on insti- tutional investors’ investments in foreign exchange transactions were introduced in Croatia with respect to open-end investment funds and in Peru and Romania with respect to pension funds. Investment firms subject to the new EU financial sector regulatory framework became subject to risk requirements com- prising foreign exchange components and own funds requirements relating to foreign exchange in France and the United Kingdom. As part of pension reform in the Czech Republic, prudential rules for pension funds and pension companies, including rules on eligible assets and investment limits and on the manage- ment of pension funds, were amended. The capital market law in Moldova redefined conditions govern- ing investment of funds through Undertakings for the Collective Investment of Transferable Securities. Requirements were also adopted for professional clients and qualified investors in accordance with the provisions of EU directives. Three reported measures eased the prudential rules for investment by institutional investors. Austria permit- ted insurance companies to cover up to 7 percent of their technical provisions with corporate loans subject to a strict set of conditions regarding credit quality and continuous risk analysis. Turkey allowed mutual funds to invest up to 20 percent of their portfolios in funds traded on foreign exchanges without registration with the Capital Markets Board. Poland gradually increased the limit on open pension funds, and China raised the limit on insurance companies’ equity and real estate investments. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 53 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Two-thirds of the reported changes in prudential measures specific to institutional investors were recorded as neutral (28). These changes cannot be linked directly to the easing or tightening of rules and reflect mainly institutional or procedural changes. Belarus revised the minimum equity capital for dealers and brokers, secu- rities trustees, and organizers of securities trading and clearing organizations. New legislation on insurance operations went into effect July 1, 2013, when Croatia joined the European Union. Insurance and pension fund supervision were transferred from the National Bank of Georgia to the Insurance State Supervision Service. Kazakhstan overhauled its pension system through establishment of the single pension fund and the transfer to this fund of the pension assets of all existing pension funds. The existing pension funds may retain their own assets and, following the transfer of the pension assets, may continue operations as pension portfolio managers or voluntary pension funds. San Marino revised the regulations on collective investment plans, and several regulations on institutional investors were revised in Turkey to ensure consistency with the new Capital Markets Board Law and international implementation. The State Bank of Vietnam issued guid- ance on account opening and use, outward fund transfers, overseas debt collection, registration for lending and collection of overseas debts, and other fund transfers for overseas lending and debt-collection activities of economic entities. 54 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Special Topic Capital Flows: Dynamics, Evolution, and Policy Advice In an increasingly integrated world, capital flow volatility is a fact of life: the volume as well as the nature and destination of flows have evolved, as advanced, emerging market, and developing economies have responded to changes in their internal and external economic environments. Flows that are not related to foreign direct investment (FDI) can be especially volatile—a burst of foreign financial investment for a few quarters or even more can be followed by sudden disinvestment. This has been particularly burdensome for emerging market and developing economies over the past three decades.26 The rise in worldwide demand has nurtured the deepening of the domestic financial sector in these economies, producing stronger and more transpar- ent financial institutions, cheaper and more varied sources of credit, and larger financial markets with more types of financial assets. Emerging markets’ relatively high growth rates and the deepening of their financial sectors have stoked foreign investment inflows, especially as investors seek to escape the low interest rates in advanced economies. Any country with even a partially liberalized financial account is subject to a certain degree of capital flow volatility. However, large inflows and their sudden stop or reversal present a number of specific macroeco- nomic and financial stability concerns. The tapering of unconventional expansionary monetary policies in the advanced economies foreshadows such a reversal of capital flows, as was evident from the markets’ immediate reaction to announcements by the Federal Reserve in May 2013 about its plans to exit from quantitative easing. The subsequent behavior of the global markets can be divided into three phases. In phase 1, during May and June 2013, there was exchange rate depreciation, with increases in interest rates and sovereign credit default swap spreads that were similar across emerging market economies. In phase 2, during the second half of 2013, country-specific conditions played an important role in determining investors’ behavior. In phase 3, from the beginning of 2014, the importance of idiosyncratic country factors became even more pronounced, with concerns over political and economic vulnerabilities triggering country-specific movements in exchange rates and asset prices (IMF 2014a). To understand the dynamics of capital flows, this Special Topic briefly traces their evolution over the past 30 years, describes their causes and effects, and summarizes the IMF’s findings on the appropriate policy packages to successfully deal with the inherent volatility of capital flows. Recent History of Capital Flows: Volatile and Episodic The rising magnitude and volatility of capital flows (Figure 2) present macroeconomic policy challenges and international financial stability concerns (IMF 2013b). When capital flows into small and shallow financial markets, asset prices increase, which improves national fiscal indicators and spurs domestic credit growth. Foreign direct investment (FDI), for example, has contributed to economic growth, productivity improve- ments, technological modernization, and human capital development in emerging market and developing economies (Arbatli 2011). But such favorable developments have sometimes aggravated structural weaknesses in these economies’ monetary and fiscal sectors (Reinhart and Reinhart 2008). FDI, especially greenfield FDI, is a relatively stable type of flow that is unlikely to carry major risks. Portfolio inflows, which can be large and volatile, carry greater potential risks for emerging market economies (IMF 2011; Chamon and others 2010). 26 Using gross and net capital flow data for the period 1980–2011 for a sample of 147 advanced, emerging market, and developing economies, Bluedorn and others (2013) find that private capital flows have been typically volatile for all countries, but the volatility has perhaps been most notable for emerging market and developing economies. A study by the IMF (2011) identifies frequent capital inflow surges (a quarter or year in which gross inflows exceeded the long-term average and were larger than 1.5 percent of GDP), episodes (a string of surges), and waves (a large number of simultaneous country episodes) among 48 emerging market and developing economies from 1990 through 2010. Surges occurred 20 percent of the time; episodes arose in 158 cases; and waves arrived three times. Forbes and Warnock (2012b) identify 167 surges, 221 stops, 196 flights, and 214 retrenchments based on gross flows between 1980 and 2009 in a sample of 58 countries from all income groups. Ghosh and others (2014) identify more than 300 episodes of surges in net flows to emerging markets over the past decades. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 55 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Figure 2. Gross Capital Inflows for All Emerging Market Economies, 1990–2012 (Percent of GDP) 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 –5 –10 Interquartile range Median 1990 94 98 2002 06 10 12 Sources: IMF, Balance of Payments Statistics; IMF (2013b); and IMF staff calculations. In the late 1970s, heavy borrowing by emerging market and developing economies of short-term bank liabili- ties in foreign currencies created precarious currency mismatches. The continued heavy reliance on unstable short-term flows played a major role in the Latin American debt crisis of 1982, as well as in other financial crises in the 1980s and 1990s (CGFS 2009). For almost a decade, most capital moved only between advanced economies, until flows to emerging market and developing economies revived in the early 1990s. By 1993, net flows to emerging market and developing economies had risen to about $150 billion from a 1983–90 annual average of less than $40 billion (Turner 1995). Declines in policy rates in the United States and Europe helped increase the supply of low-cost financing that flowed to Asian emerging market econo- mies, which in turn increased their issuance of debt securities, denominated mostly in dollars. The capital flow surges were largely short term in nature and created a double mismatch of currency and maturities (ADBI 2010). These developments led to risky financing of large current account deficits, inflation, asset market bubbles, speculative activities (CGFS 2009), excessive credit growth, and currency appreciation. The risks materialized in the 1997–98 Asian financial crisis, when inflows stopped and exposed the buildup of vulnerabilities (IMF 2013b). The fallout for many East Asian countries included large capital outflows, currency crises, the bursting of asset price bubbles, a collapse of investment, and banking and macroeconomic crises (CGFS 2009). Emerging market and developing economies in Latin America and Europe became more attractive investment destinations, but the flows remained uneven in the early 2000s, reflecting a reduced risk appetite. Starting in 2002, there was a continuous strong increase in gross and net flows among advanced economies and from advanced economies to emerging market economies, the latter of which increased by almost 600 percent over the next five years (IMF 2006). There was a sudden stop of capital flows at the nadir of the global financial crisis in late 2008. A new surge arose in late 2009 and 2010, largely because advanced economies reduced their monetary policy rates to near zero in their efforts to recover from the Great Recession (IMF 2013b; CGFS 2009). Another outflow-inflow cycle occurred in late 2011–12, but gross capital inflows to emerging market and developing economies have declined since mid-2013. These declines have led to tightened financial conditions in these economies, cre- ating a host of macroeconomic and financial stability risks. Countries with strong fundamentals and sound policies, however, have been able to withstand the impact of this volatility (IMF 2014b). 56 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 The Evolving Nature of Capital Flows The nature of capital flows has evolved over time. There have been significant changes not only in their des- tination, but also in their composition, size, duration, volatility, and synchronicity. Destination: During the early 1980s, capital inflows went mainly to Latin America and Asia. After the Latin American debt crisis, Asia became the most desirable destination, until the Asian crisis of the late 1990s. During the early 2000s, inflows spread to countries in emerging Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States as more countries joined the European Union and as investors looked for new investment opportunities. However, in the wave that occurred after the beginning of the global financial crisis, countries in emerging Europe did not experience the inflow surge that their non-European counterparts did. Moreover, the sudden stop of capital flows in the wake of the crisis turned into capital flight from the periphery to the core of the euro area (Figure 3). The global financial crisis also brought about a collapse of gross flows (mostly bank flows) among advanced economies and a concomitant increase in flows to emerging market and devel- oping economies (IMF 2011, 2012a). Figure 3. Portfolio and Other Investment Capital Flows in the Euro Area (Percent of GDP in the preceding year; cumulative from December 2009; excludes central banks) 8 6 4 2 0 –2 –4 –6 –8 –10 –12 0 1 0 2 - n a J Core Periphery 0 1 - r p A 0 1 - l u J 0 1 - t c O 1 1 - n a J 1 1 - r p A 1 1 - l u J 1 1 - t c O 2 1 - n a J 2 1 - r p A Sources: Haver Analytics; IMF (2012a); and IMF staff estimates. Note: Core = Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands; Periphery = Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain. Composition: FDI–dominated inflows to emerging market and developing economies during the wave of the mid-1990s, but bank lending has more than doubled since, and there has been a significant increase in portfolio flows (purchases of financial assets—another form of financing), both in absolute terms and rela- tive to GDP. The average pace of portfolio inflows during the 2009 postcrisis wave quadrupled, from about 0.3 percent of GDP to 1.2 percent, and accounted for about half of total flows (IMF 2011). In response to prolonged low interest rates in advanced economies, investors (including insurance companies and pension funds) increased their demand for higher-yield emerging market assets. But slower growth in the supply of such assets contributed to a further shift in the composition of flows, specifically by increasing the share of sovereign bond holdings by nonresidents (IMF 2013a). On the corporate side, the issuance of bonds has grown relative to that of equities, leading to higher debt-to- equity ratios in emerging market and developing economies and, in some cases, to a higher share of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the level of which has increased by about 50 percent in the past five years (IMF 2013a). The shift from FDI to less stable portfolio flows, including those denominated in foreign cur- International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 57 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 rencies, has contributed to making flows more sensitive to global shocks. In response, many emerging market and developing economies have taken steps to limit their vulnerability by deepening their banking sectors and capital markets, making institutional improvements, and recruiting local investors (IMF 2014a). Size and duration: Capital flow “bonanzas”—strong inflows that are larger than normal—have become more frequent with the decrease of restrictions on capital flows (Reinhart and Reinhart 2008; Eichengreen and Adalet 2005). The surges that occurred just before the global financial crisis were larger and longer than those that occurred before the Asian crisis (IMF 2013b). A typical episode lasted about 13 quarters in the 1990s and about 20 quarters in the 2000s; the average size of aggregate inflows rose from slightly less than 2 percent of GDP a quarter in the 1990s to about 3.3 percent of GDP a quarter in the 2000s (IMF 2011). Volatility: Non-FDI flows tend to be more sensitive to changing macroeconomic and financial conditions than FDI flows. Portfolio inflows have historically been more volatile than other types of inflows, and they have recently become even more so. At the same time, the volatility of bank lending flows rises significantly during crises given their highly procyclical character. For example, credit demand rises when economic growth increases and perceived risks decrease, but as retail deposits become insufficient to fund the demand, cross- border bank lending (so-called non-core funding) and leverage ratios both rise. During economic downturns, the opposite occurs: bank lending decreases sharply as funding constraints and credit risks escalate (IMF 2011; Committee on International Economic Policy Reform 2012). On the whole, the volatility of capital flows has increased over time. Bluedorn and others (2013) conclude that this increased volatility has been quantitative rather than qualitative in nature—that is, the volatility is a result only of the expanded volume, not of a change in the incremental volatility of net or gross flows relative to GDP. However, they note that these measures may mask qualitative differences. The volatility of total net flows for advanced economies and for emerging market and developing economies was found to be similar despite the higher volatility of the various components of capital flows in advanced economies. The authors suggest that a possible explanation could be greater substitutability between different types of flows, as well as the complementarity of inflows and outflows in advanced economies compared with flows to emerging market or developing economies. Synchronicity: Inflow episodes often end simultaneously in a number of countries, given that all countries are subject to the same global conditions and also to contagion (Calvo, Izquierdo, and Mejia 2004). In contrast, the beginning of episodes is generally not simultaneous across countries because idiosyncratic country factors attract capital inflows at different times. However, external conditions have recently influenced not only the ending of inflow episodes but also their beginning (IMF 2011): during the second half of 2009, 18 emerg- ing market and developing economies experienced large inflows simultaneously as the advanced economies started their unprecedented monetary easing. Countries’ Resilience to Capital Flows Resilience refers to the ability of an economy to sustain longer and stronger expansions and to experience shorter and shallower downturns and more rapid recoveries (IMF 2012c). In general, the countries that enjoyed greater resilience were those with better prudential regulations and financial supervision, more coun- tercyclical fiscal and monetary policies, more flexible exchange rate regimes, and more stable current accounts (net capital flows). Chamon and others (2010) find that some controls on capital flows (in particular debt flows) may contribute to limiting financial fragility in the face of capital flow volatility. However, a decision to implement controls should also take into account the potentially adverse multilateral consequences of such controls. The increasing role of domestic institutional investors in emerging market and developing economies may have helped counteract the strong external drivers of capital inflows. For example, many of these countries have introduced pension systems that supplement or replace state-provided plans with partially or fully funded defined-contribution plans. Many have also reduced or eliminated limits on investments by insti- tutional investors, broadening the permissible scope of asset types and asset locations. The accumulation of private sector wealth and improvements in financial literacy have further boosted domestic investment. These 58 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 developments have stimulated the creation of various collective investment vehicles such as mutual funds and unit trusts. In addition to the other benefits associated with diversification, outflows through such institu- tional investors can help offset some of the effects of large capital inflows (CGFS 2009). Counterbalancing capital flows may have also enhanced resilience in some countries facing capital outflows. During the global financial crisis, emerging market and developing economies reacted in a remarkably differ- ent way than during previous crises: when nonresident inflows stopped, residents in many cases repatriated their own foreign-held assets, providing a buffer that contributed greatly to the resilience of those economies and minimized the disruption from nonresident outflows. Such repatriation enabled most of the adjustment to occur in the financial sector, in contrast to previous sudden stops, when most of the adjustment took place in the real sector, lowering GDP and consumption and raising unemployment. It should be noted, however, that such a mechanism may not always be at work: domestic vulnerabilities or global shocks may encourage residents to move their investments to safe havens (Broner and others 2013; IMF 2013b). Drivers of Capital Flows The timing, magnitude, and duration of capital flows has been the subject of academic and policy debates since at least the mid-1930s, when the United States experienced a surge in capital inflows (Qureshi 2012). Two concepts have figured prominently in the analysis: the investment behavior of residents and foreigners, and domestic versus external economic conditions. Domestic versus foreign investors: Domestic investors and foreign investors may differ in the way they respond to internal and external conditions and to shocks. If simultaneous, these responses could offset or magnify each other (Forbes and Warnock 2012b). Ghosh and others (2014), for example, find that foreign and domestic investors respond similarly to domestic conditions, but that foreign investors react more to changes in global conditions (such as U.S. interest rates and global market uncertainty). The determinants of surges of domestic outflows were found to be idiosyncratic and difficult to generalize. Incentives (such as the domestic exchange rate) and constraints (such as access to liquidity) differ by country for domestic and foreign investors. Gross flows are determined by foreigners’ investments in a given country and residents’ investments outside of that country. However, resident outflows in emerging market economies are usually not sufficient to offset foreign inflows. Thus, net flows for emerging market economies seem to be largely driven by foreign investors (Bluedorn and others 2013). Asymmetric information may provide a tim- ing advantage to domestic investors with regard to positive and negative shocks to domestic assets (Tille and van Wincoop 2012). In a crisis, a default is more likely to hit foreign than domestic investors, which might trigger a transfer of assets from foreign to domestic investors (Broner, Martin, and Ventura 2010). Domestic versus external conditions: Most studies of the determinants of capital flows find an interplay between domestic and external factors (Papaioannou 2009; IMF 2011). Domestic (pull, or demand-side) factors include improved macroeconomic fundamentals, higher institutional quality, lower risk, favorable regulations and policies, and market idiosyncrasies (Qureshi 2012). Local factors, such as current account deficits and real GDP growth, have been found to be correlated with net capital surges (Reinhart and Reinhart 2008; Cardarelli, Elekdag, and Kose 2009). However, in recent years their influence appears to have been less than that of global external conditions (Ghosh and others 2014; Broto, Diaz-Cassou, and Erce 2011). Qureshi (2012) observes that one demonstration of the force of external factors was the reversal of flows to emerging market economies that occurred when global risk aversion (measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index [VIX]) increased following Standard & Poor’s downgrade of the United States’ sovereign debt rating from AAA to AA+ in August 2011. External (push, or supply-side) factors include low interest rates and GDP growth in advanced economies, higher risk appetite and higher commodity prices, liquidity, contagion through financial linkages, trade flows, and geographic proximity (Reinhart and Reinhart 2008; Cardarelli, Elekdag, and Kose 2009; Mercado and Park 2011; Forbes and Warnock 2012a). When interest rates in advanced economies are relatively low and investor risk appetite is high, the occurrence of capital flow surges is likely to increase, and vice versa. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 59 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 In an illustration of the interaction between push and pull factors, Ghosh and others (2014) find that, although surges in net capital flows tend to cluster in time, the volume of these surges tends to vary consid- erably across countries, as does the set of emerging market economies that experience any given surge. The synchronicity is explained by global (push) factors (U.S. interest rates and risk aversion), but pull factors— including economic growth, external financing need, capital account restrictiveness, exchange rate regime, and institutional quality—determine the characteristics of the surge as experienced by a given country. Sudden Stops: Determinants and Effects Sudden stops in capital flows may lead to excessive exchange rate depreciation, credit busts, and asset price deflation, and thus may destabilize the domestic economy. As early as 2004, the observed clustering of sudden stops across countries highlighted the importance of assessing individual countries’ vulnerability to external shocks (Calvo, Izquierdo, and Mejia 2004; Magud and Vesperoni 2014). There are two types of sudden stop: inflow driven, when foreign investors sharply reduce, discontinue, or withdraw their investments; and outflow driven, when residents invest heavily abroad. Both may be preceded by a surge of capital inflows, although not necessarily (Magud and Vesperoni 2014). Calderón and Kubota (2011) find that inflow-driven stops tend to be most clustered in time but that outflow-driven stops, which are generally more spread out over time, have recently become more frequent. The type of stop also influ- ences the subsequent state of the domestic economy: an inflow-driven stop tends to lead to lower growth than would an outflow-driven stop, including lower gross domestic investment, lower GDP per worker, and lower total factor productivity. External factors, such as increased investor risk aversion, higher global growth, and higher interest rates in the advanced economies, increase the probability of sudden stops (Forbes and Warnock 2012a). The effect of these global factors may be amplified by the state of the domestic economy. Inflow-driven sudden stops are more likely when economic growth rates are low and the export base is volatile (as proxied by an abundance of natural resource exports). The likelihood of such stops decreases when the domestic economy is growing and the world interest rate is lower than the domestic rate. The factors that predict outflow-driven sudden stops are financial openness and external savings (current account surpluses) (Calderón and Kubota 2011). Analyzing data from 32 advanced economies, Calvo, Izquierdo, and Mejia (2004) find that openness27 and domestic liability dollarization are the main contributors to the increased probability of sudden stops. Openness is determined by domestic policies, such as tariffs, that influence the supply of tradable goods; and dollarization is a product of fiscal and monetary policies. Sudden stops in gross flows do not necessarily result in sudden stops of net flows, but they can still have significant effects. Sudden stops in gross flows that arise from changes in international banking flows are associated with potentially destabilizing deleveraging within a short time. Using data for a sample of 63 advanced, emerging market, and developing economies for the period 1980– 2012, Cavallo and others (2013) create a new taxonomy of sudden stops, which they classify into seven cat- egories that represent all possible mixes of origins of changes in flows that together constitute a sudden stop: changes in gross capital inflows, outflows, and net capital flows (Figure 4 and Table 12). Cavallo and others (2013) find that sudden stops in gross inflows have a greater negative effect than sudden surges in gross outflows, which were not found to be followed by decreases in real GDP. A sudden stop in net flows originating from a sharp decrease in bank flows was found to have the greatest negative impact. Sudden stops in net flows are often followed by real currency depreciations and current account adjustments, which in turn lead to lower economic growth or recessions. This study also emphasizes that advanced economies are not immune to experiencing sudden stops. 27 Openness is defined as a large supply of tradable goods that exceeds domestic demand. 60 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Figure 4. A Taxonomy of Capital Flow Sudden Stops Inﬂows Outflows SSI SSIO SSO SSION SSIN SSON SSN Net Source: Cavallo and others (2013). Note: SSI = sudden stops in gross inflows; SSIN = sudden stops in gross and net inflows; SSION = sudden stops in gross and net inflows plus sudden starts in gross outflows; SSO = sudden starts in gross outflows; SSON = sudden starts in gross outflows and sudden stops in net flows; SSN = sudden stops in net flows; SSIO = an empty set because all cases of concurrent SSI and SSO are included in SSION. Table 12. Summary of Frequency Distribution of Episodes by Type Type of Event All Countries Advanced Economies Before 2000 After 2000 Developing Economies Before 2000 After 2000 Inflows Outflows Net SSI SSIN SSION SSO SSON SSION SSN SSIN SSON SSION 131 37% 44% 20% 159 60% 23% 16% 141 15% 40% 26% 18% 38 50% 47% 3% 50 82% 16% 2% 35 23% 51% 23% 3% 55 42% 27% 31% 56 38% 32% 30% 58 14% 26% 31% 29% 14 7% 71% 21% 18 67% 17% 17% 19 16% 53% 16% 16% 24 21% 58% 21% 35 63% 23% 14% 29 7% 48% 28% 17% Source: Cavallo and others (2013). Note: SSI = sudden stops in gross inflows; SSIN = sudden stops in gross and net inflows; SSION = sudden stops in gross and net inflows plus sudden starts in gross outflows; SSO = sudden starts in gross outflows; SSON = sudden starts in gross outflows and sudden stops in net flows; SSN = sudden stops in net flows. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 61 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 The Composition of Large Flows and the Probability of Crisis Several studies have found that capital inflow bonanzas significantly increase the probability of banking and currency crises and, most significantly, of balance of payments crises once the surge ends (Reinhart and Reinhart 2008; Furceri, Guichard, and Rusticelli 2011). They often include a proportional comovement in the cumulative capital inflow and the probability of a sudden stop. In addition, the post-sudden-stop levels of capital inflows in about one-fourth of the capital flow episodes were found to be significantly lower than the prebonanza levels (Furceri, Guichard, and Rusticelli 2011; Forbes and Warnock 2012a). The composition of the flows in a given episode has a large bearing on the probability of those crises: debt- driven flows significantly increase their likelihood, while equity-driven flows (portfolio flows as well as FDI) have a negligible effect. Furceri, Guichard, and Rusticelli (2011) find a near doubling of the probability of a banking or a currency crisis two years after a sudden stop of large capital inflows.28 They also find the follow- ing factors to be significant for the various types of crisis: inflation and short-term interest rates for banking, currency, and balance of payments crises; foreign reserves for banking and currency crises; bank concentration for banking crises; and size of country, trade openness, net foreign asset position, and foreign debt for balance of payments crises. However, they conclude that while countries may not have much power to prevent a sud- den stop, their institutional quality and regulatory framework greatly influence the likelihood of experiencing banking and currency crises.29 Glick, Guo, and Hutchison (2006) find that an increase in capital account openness and financial liberalization also reduces the probability of banking and currency crises. Role of Exchange Rate Flexibility Exchange rate flexibility cannot prevent a sudden stop or reversal, but it can decrease the effect of inflow- driven credit booms (Elekdag and Wu 2011). Several studies examine the relationship between exchange rate flexibility and the behavior of credit in the banking sector during capital flow bonanzas. Magud, Reinhart, and Vesperoni (2012) and Magud and Vesperoni (2014) find that bank credit, especially credit denominated in foreign currency, grew more rapidly in countries with less flexible exchange rate regimes. Furceri, Guichard, and Rusticelli (2011) also find that credit expansions from large inflows were smaller in countries with higher real exchange rate flexibility. Lane (2013) focuses on Europe and finds similar results. As exchange rates tend to depreciate during crises, the foreign currency value of domestic assets decreases, which may attract new capital inflows and partly offset the outflows. This mechanism is not available, however, to countries that do not have their own currency, as in the euro area. Overall, the likelihood of crises is reduced even when the exchange rate is less than fully flexible, such as under floating and managed float regimes. Ghosh, Ostry, and Qureshi (2014) find that countries with hard pegs were not particularly susceptible to banking or currency crises owing to official actions to maintain such regimes, but they were significantly more susceptible to growth crises than countries with floating rate regimes. Intermediate regimes appear to be more prone to banking and currency crises, but managed floats—a subclass within such regimes—behave much more like pure floats, with significantly lower risks and fewer crises. Given the resilience of countries with managed float regimes, however, the susceptibility to crises was related to central bank actions—whether the central bank intervened to limit overvaluation or whether it abstained from intervention to maintain an overvalued exchange rate. 28 The unconditional probability of a crisis at any point in time under the same specification is only 5 percent for a banking crisis and 4 percent for a currency crisis. The estimated probabilities of a banking or currency crisis two years after the end of a bonanza are about 9 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. 29 The study covers 112 advanced, emerging market, and developing economies from 1970 to 2007. Institutional quality is measured using the Worldwide Governance Indicators, which capture perceptions of a government’s ability to formulate and implement sound policies and regulations that permit and promote private sector development. 62 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Policy Advice How can policymakers mitigate the effects of large capital inflows and their reversal? According to the IMF’s institutional view on the liberalization and management of capital flows (IMF 2012b), the appropriate policy responses comprise a range of measures and involve both countries that are recipients of capital flows and those from which flows originate. For countries that have to manage the macroeconomic and financial stabil- ity risks associated with inflow surges or disruptive outflows, a key role needs to be played by macroeconomic policies, including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate management, as well as by sound financial supervision and regulation and strong institutions. The appropriate combination of policies for addressing these risks would depend on country circumstances. In certain circumstances, capital flow management measures (CFMs) that are designed to limit capital flows can be useful. They should not, however, substitute for warranted macroeconomic adjustment. When capital flows contribute to systemic financial risks, CFMs in combination with macroprudential measures (MPMs) more broadly can help safeguard financial stability, although their costs also need to be taken into account.30 The choice of which CFM to use would depend on its expected effectiveness and efficiency. The design and implementation of CFMs should be transparent, targeted, temporary, and preferably nondiscriminatory. In general, policy options for managing inflow surges depend upon country-specific factors, which determine which options are feasible and effective. Outflows should usually be handled primarily with macroeconomic, structural, and financial policies. In crisis situations, or when a crisis may be imminent, there could be a role for the introduction of temporary CFMs on outflows. Policymakers in all countries, including countries that generate large capital flows, should take into account how their policies may affect global economic and financial stability. Cross-border policy coordination among recipient countries, and between source and recipient countries, would help mitigate undesired spillover effects of policies and achieve globally efficient outcomes. Conclusions Capital flows are volatile and are continuously evolving in response to a wide range of factors, including macroeconomic conditions, economic development, regulatory frameworks, the business cycle, saving pat- terns, and investor expectations. But available knowledge, tools, and practical experience can help economic policymakers mitigate and recover from their disruptive effects. To be effective, however, any policy response requires an accurate understanding of the causes and effects of flow volatility and supportive macroeconomic and regulatory policy frameworks. Further research on the evolving nature of capital flows can help improve the effectiveness of the tools for mitigating their risks without negating their financial and developmental benefits. References Arbatli, Elif. 2011. “Economic Policies and FDI Inflows to Emerging Market Economies.” Working Paper 11/192, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI). 2010. Managing Capital Flows: The Search for a Framework. Northampton, Massachusetts: Edward Elgar. Bluedorn, John, Rupa Duttagupta, Jaime Guajardo, and Petia Topalova. 2013. “Capital Flows Are Fickle: Anytime, Anywhere.” Working Paper 13/183, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Broner, Fernando, Tatiana Didier, Aitor Erce, and Sergio Schmukler. 2013. “Gross Capital Flows: Dynamics and Crises.” Journal of Monetary Economics 60 (1): 113–33. 30 MPMs are prudential tools that are primarily designed to limit systemic financial risk and maintain financial system stabil- ity. While CFMs aim to contain the scale or influence the composition of capital flows, MPMs seek to contain the buildup of systemic financial risks, irrespective of whether the origin of the risk is domestic or cross border. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 63 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Broner, Fernando, Alberto Martin, and Jaume Ventura. 2010. “Sovereign Risk and Secondary Markets.” American Economic Review 100 (4): 1523–55. Broto, Carmen, Javier Diaz-Cassou, and Aitor Erce. 2011. “Measuring and Explaining the Volatility of Capital Flows to Emerging Countries.” Journal of Banking and Finance 35: 1941–53. Calderón, César, and Megumi Kubota. 2011. “Sudden Stops: Are Global and Local Investors Alike?” Policy Research Working Paper, World Bank, Washington. Calvo, Guillermo, Alejandro Izquierdo, and Luis-Fernando Mejia. 2004. “On the Empirics of Sudden Stops: The Relevance of Balance Sheet Effects.” Working Paper 10520, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cardarelli, Roberto, Selim Elekdag, and Ayhan Kose. 2009. “Capital Inflows: Macroeconomic Implications and Policy Responses.” Working Paper 09/40, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Cavallo, Eduardo, Andrew Powell, Mathieu Pedemonte, and Pilar Tavella. 2013. “A New Taxonomy of Sudden Stops: Which Sudden Stops Should Countries Be Most Concerned About?” Working Paper 430, Inter-American Development Bank, Washington. Chamon, Marcos, Atish Ghosh, Karl Habermeier, Jonathan Ostry, Mahvash Qureshi, and Dennis Reinhardt. 2010. “Capital Inflows: The Role of Controls.” Staff Position Note 10/04, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Committee on the Global Financial System (CGFS). 2009. Capital Flows and Emerging Market Economies. CGFS Papers 33. Basel: Bank for International Settlements. Committee on International Economic Policy and Reform. 2012. Banks and Cross-Border Capital Flows: Policy Challenges and Regulatory Responses. Washington: Brookings Institution. Eichengreen, Barry, and Muge Adalet. 2005. “Current Account Reversals: Always a Problem?” Working Paper 11634, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Elekdag, Selim, and Yiqun Wu. 2011. “Rapid Credit Growth: Boon or Boom-Bust?” Working Paper 11/241, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Forbes, Kristin, and Francis Warnock. 2012a. “Capital Flow Waves: Surges, Stops, Flight, and Retrenchment.” Journal of International Economics 88 (2): 235–51. ———. 2012b. “Debt- and Equity-Led Capital Flow Episodes.” Working Paper 18329, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Furceri, Davide, Stéphanie Guichard, and Elena Rusticelli. 2011. “Episodes of Large Capital Inflows and the Likelihood of Banking and Currency Crises and Sudden Stops.” Economics Department Working Paper 865, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris. Ghosh, Atish, Jun Kim, Mahvash Qureshi, and Juan Zalduendo. 2014. “Surges.” Journal of International Economics 92 (2): 266–85. Ghosh, Atish, Jonathan Ostry, and Mahvash Qureshi. 2014. “Exchange Rate Management and Crisis Susceptibility: A Reassessment.” Working Paper 14/11, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Glick, Reuven, Xueyan Guo, and Michael Hutchison. 2006. “Currency Crises, Capital Account Liberalization, and Selection Bias.” Review of Economics and Statistics 88 (4): 698–714. International Monetary Fund (IMF). 2006. Global Financial Stability Report: Market Developments and Issues. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, September. ———. 2011. “Recent Experiences in Managing Capital Inflows—Cross-Cutting Themes and Possible Policy Framework.” Prepared by the Strategy, Policy, and Review Department, Washington, February. http://www.imf.org/external/np/pp/eng/2011/021411a.pdf. ———. 2012a. Global Financial Stability Report: Restoring Confidence and Progressing on Reforms. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, October. 64 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 ———. 2012b. “The Liberalization and Management of Capital Flows: An Institutional View.” Prepared by the Strategy, Policy, and Review, Monetary and Capital Markets, Research, and Legal Departments, Washington, November. http://www.imf.org/external/np/pp/eng/2012/111412.pdf. ———. 2012c. World Economic Outlook: Coping with High Debt and Sluggish Growth. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, October. ———. 2013a. Global Financial Stability Report: Old Risks, New Challenges. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, April. ———. 2013b. World Economic Outlook: Transitions and Tensions. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, October. ———. 2014a. Global Financial Stability Report: Moving from Liquidity- to Growth-Driven Markets. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, April. ———. 2014b. World Economic Outlook: Recovery Strengthens, Remains Uneven. World Economic and Financial Surveys, Washington, April. Lane, Philip R. 2013. “Capital Flows in the Euro Area.” Economic Papers 497, European Commission, Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs, Brussels. Magud, Nicolas, Carmen Reinhart, and Esteban Vesperoni. 2012. “Capital Inflows, Exchange Rate Flexibility, and Credit Booms.” Working Paper 12/41, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Magud, Nicolas E., and Esteban R. Vesperoni. 2014. “Exchange Rate Flexibility and Credit during Capital Inflow Reversals: Purgatory … not Paradise.” Working Paper 14/61, International Monetary Fund, Washington. Mercado, Rogelio, and Cyn-Young Park. 2011. “What Drives Different Types of Capital Flow and Their Volatilities in Developing Asia?” International Economic Journal 25 (4): 655–80. Papaioannou, Elias. 2009. “What Drives International Financial Flows? Politics, Institutions and Other Determinants.” Journal of Development Economics 88 (2): 269–81. Qureshi, Mahvash S. 2012. “Surges in Capital Flows: Why History Repeats Itself.” IMF Research Bulletin 13 (3): 1–3. Reinhart, Carmen M., and Vincent R. Reinhart. 2008. “Capital Flow Bonanzas: An Encompassing View of the Past and the Present.” Working Paper 14321, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. doi: 10.3386/w14321. Tille, Cedric, and Eric van Wincoop. 2012. “International Capital Flows under Dispersed Private Information.” Journal of International Economics 93 (1): 31–49. Turner, Philip. 1995. “Capital Flows in Latin America: A New Phase.” BIS Economic Paper 44, Bank for International Settlements, Basel. http://www.bis.org/publ/econ44.htm. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 65 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Compilation Guide Status under IMF Articles of Agreement The member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement. The member country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrange- ments of Article XIV, Section 2. Exchange Measures Exchange restrictions and multiple currency practices (MCPs) maintained by a member country under Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, or under Article XIV, Section 2, of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, as specified in the latest IMF staff reports issued as of December 31, 2013. Information on exchange restrictions and MCPs or on the absence of exchange restric- tions and MCPs for countries with unpublished staff reports is published only with the consent of the authorities. If no consent has been received, the Annual Report on Exchange Agreements and Exchange Restrictions (AREAER) indicates “Information is not publicly available.” Hence, “Information is not publicly available” does not necessarily imply that the country maintains exchange restrictions or MCPs. It indicates only that the country’s relevant staff report has not been published and the authori- ties have not consented to publication of information on the existence of exchange restrictions and MCPs. Because in some cases the relevant staff document refers to years before the reporting period of the AREAER, more recent changes in the exchange system may not be included in those staff reports. Changes in the category restrictions and/or multiple currency practices are reflected in the subsequent edition of the AREAER, which covers the calendar year during which the IMF staff report with information on such changes is issued. Changes in the measures giving rise to exchange restrictions or MCPs that affect other categories of the country tables are reported under the relevant categories in the AREAER in accordance with the standard reporting periods. Exchange measures on payments and transfers in connection with international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. Security restrictions on current international payments and transfers on the basis of IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), which establishes the obligation of members to notify the IMF before imposing such restrictions, or, if circumstances preclude advance notification, as promptly as possible. Other restrictions imposed for security reasons (e.g., in accordance with UN or EU regulations) but not notified to the IMF under Board Decision 144-(52/51). Specific references to the underlying legal materials and hyperlinks to the legal texts. The category is included at the end of each section. Article VIII Article XIV Restrictions and/or multi- ple currency practices Exchange measures imposed for security reasons In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Other security restrictions References to legal instru- ments and hyperlinks Currency The official legal tender of the country. Exchange Arrangement International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 67 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification The existence of another currency that is officially allowed to be used in the country. If there is one exchange rate, the system is called unitary; if there is more than one exchange rate that may be used simultaneously for different purposes and/or by different entities, and these exchange rates give rise to MCPs or differing rates for current and capital transactions, the system is called dual or multiple. Different effective exchange rates resulting from exchange taxes or subsidies, excessive exchange rate spreads between buying and selling rates, bilateral payments agreements, and broken cross rates are not included in this category. Changes in the measures in this category are reported in accordance with the standard reporting periods. Reclassification in cases related to changes in MCPs occurs in the edition of the AREAER that covers the calendar year during which the IMF staff report including information on such changes is issued. Describes and classifies the de jure and the de facto exchange rate arrangements. De jure The description and effective dates of the de jure exchange rate arrange- ments are provided by the authorities. Under Article IV, Section 2(a), of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement and Paragraph 16 of 2007 Surveillance Decision No. 13919-(07/51), each member is required to notify the IMF of the exchange arrangements it intends to apply and to notify the IMF promptly of any changes in its exchange arrangements. Country authori- ties are also requested to identify, whenever possible, which of the existing exchange rate arrangement categories listed below most closely corre- sponds to the de jure arrangement in effect. Country authorities may also wish to briefly describe their official exchange rate policy. The description includes officially announced or estimated parameters of the exchange arrangement (e.g., parity, bands, weights, rate of crawl, and other indica- tors used to manage the exchange rate). It also provides information on the computation of the exchange rate. De facto The IMF staff classifies the de facto exchange rate arrangements accord- ing to the categories below. The name and the definition of the categories describing the de facto exchange rate arrangements have been modified in accordance with the revised classification methodology, as of February 1, 2009. Wherever the description of the de jure arrangement can be empirically confirmed by the staff over at least the previous six months, the exchange rate arrangement is classified in the same way on a de facto basis. Because the de facto methodology for classification of exchange rate regimes is based on a backward-looking approach that relies on past exchange rate movement and historical data, some countries have been reclassified retroactively to the date the behavior of the exchange rate changed and matched the criteria for reclassification to the appropriate category. For these countries, if the retroactive date of reclassification precedes the period covered in this report, the effective date of change to be entered in the country chapter and the changes section is deemed to be the first day of the year in which the decision of reclassification took place. 68 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Classification as an exchange rate arrangement with no separate legal tender involves confirmation of the country authorities’ de jure exchange rate arrangement. The currency of another country circulates as the sole legal tender (formal dollarization). Adopting such an arrangement implies complete surrender of the monetary authorities’ control over domestic monetary policy. Note: effective January 1, 2007, exchange arrangements of countries that belong to a monetary or currency union in which the same legal tender is shared by the members of the union are classified under the arrangement governing the joint currency. This classification is based on the behavior of the common currency, whereas the previous classification was based on the lack of a separate legal tender. The classifi- cation thus reflects only a definitional change and is not based on a judg- ment that there has been a substantive change in the exchange arrange- ment or other policies of the currency union or its members. Classification as a currency board involves confirmation of the country authorities’ de jure exchange rate arrangement. A currency board arrange- ment is a monetary arrangement based on an explicit legislative commit- ment to exchange domestic currency for a specified foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate, combined with restrictions on the issuance authority to ensure the fulfillment of its legal obligation. This implies that domestic currency is usually fully backed by foreign assets, eliminating traditional central bank functions such as monetary control and lender of last resort, and leaving little room for discretionary monetary policy. Some flexibility may still be afforded, depending on the strictness of the banking rules of the currency board arrangement. Classification as a conventional peg involves confirmation of the country authorities’ de jure exchange rate arrangement. For this category the country formally (de jure) pegs its currency at a fixed rate to another currency or a basket of currencies, where the basket is formed, for example, from the currencies of major trading or financial partners and weights reflect the geographic distribution of trade, services, or capital flows. The anchor currency or basket weights are public or notified to the IMF. The country authorities stand ready to maintain the fixed parity through direct intervention (i.e., via sale or purchase of foreign exchange in the market) or indirect intervention (e.g., via exchange-rate-related use of interest rate policy, imposition of foreign exchange regulations, exercise of moral suasion that constrains foreign exchange activity, or intervention by other public institutions). There is no commitment to irrevocably keep the parity, but the formal arrangement must be confirmed empirically: the exchange rate may fluctuate within narrow margins of less than ±1% around a central rate—or the maximum and minimum values of the spot market exchange rate must remain within a narrow margin of 2% for at least six months. Classification as a stabilized arrangement entails a spot market exchange rate that remains within a margin of 2% for six months or more (with the exception of a specified number of outliers or step adjustments) and is not floating. The required margin of stability can be met either with respect to a single currency or a basket of currencies, where the anchor currency or the basket is ascertained or confirmed using statistical techniques. Classification as a stabilized arrangement requires that the statistical crite- ria are met and that the exchange rate remains stable as a result of official action (including structural market rigidities). The classification does not imply a policy commitment on the part of the country authorities. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 69 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Classification as a crawling peg involves confirmation of the country authorities’ de jure exchange rate arrangement. The currency is adjusted in small amounts at a fixed rate or in response to changes in selected quantitative indicators, such as past inflation differentials vis-à-vis major trading partners or differentials between the inflation target and expected inflation in major trading partners. The rate of crawl can be set to gener- ate inflation-adjusted changes in the exchange rate (backward looking) or set at a predetermined fixed rate and/or below the projected inflation differentials (forward looking). The rules and parameters of the arrange- ment are public or notified to the IMF. For classification as a crawl-like arrangement, the exchange rate must remain within a narrow margin of 2% relative to a statistically identified trend for six months or more (with the exception of a specified number of outliers), and the exchange rate arrangement cannot be considered as floating. Usually, a minimum rate of change greater than allowed under a stabilized (peg-like) arrangement is required; however, an arrangement is considered crawl-like with an annualized rate of change of at least 1%, provided the exchange rate appreciates or depreciates in a sufficiently monotonic and continuous manner. Classification as a pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands involves confirmation of the country authorities’ de jure exchange rate arrange- ment. The value of the currency is maintained within certain margins of fluctuation of at least ±1% around a fixed central rate, or a margin between the maximum and minimum value of the exchange rate that exceeds 2%. It includes arrangements of countries in the ERM of the European Monetary System, which was replaced with the ERM II on January 1, 1999, for countries with margins of fluctuation wider than ±1%. The central rate and width of the band are public or notified to the IMF. Other managed arrangement This category is a residual and is used when the exchange rate arrange- ment does not meet the criteria for any of the other categories. Arrangements characterized by frequent shifts in policies may fall into this category. A floating exchange rate is largely market determined, without an ascer- tainable or predictable path for the rate. In particular, an exchange rate that satisfies the statistical criteria for a stabilized or a crawl-like arrangement is classified as such unless it is clear that the stability of the exchange rate is not the result of official actions. Foreign exchange market intervention may be either direct or indirect and serves to moderate the rate of change and prevent undue fluctuations in the exchange rate, but policies targeting a specific level of the exchange rate are incompatible with floating. Indicators for managing the rate are broadly judgmental (e.g., balance of payments position, international reserves, parallel market developments). Floating arrangements may exhibit more or less exchange rate volatility, depending on the size of the shocks affecting the economy. Floating 70 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Free floating Exchange rate anchor Official exchange rate Monetary aggregate target A floating exchange rate can be classified as free floating if intervention occurs only exceptionally and aims to address disorderly market condi- tions and if the authorities have provided information or data confirm- ing that intervention has been limited to at most three instances in the previous six months, each lasting no more than three business days. If the information or data required are not available to the IMF staff, the arrangement is classified as floating. Detailed data on intervention or official foreign exchange transactions will not be requested routinely of member countries—only when other information available to the staff is not sufficient to resolve uncertainties about the appropriate classification. Provides information on the computation of the exchange rate and the use of the official exchange rate (accounting, customs valuation purposes, foreign exchange transactions with the government). Monetary policy framework The category includes a brief description of the monetary policy frame- work in effect according to the following subcategories: The monetary authority buys or sell foreign exchange to maintain the exchange rate at its predetermined level or within a range. The exchange rate thus serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. These frameworks are associated with exchange rate arrangements with no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, pegs (or stabi- lized arrangements) with or without bands, crawling pegs (or crawl-like arrangements), and other managed arrangements. The monetary authority uses its instruments to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate, such as reserve money, M1, or M2, and the targeted aggregate becomes the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation-targeting framework This involves the public announcement of numerical targets for infla- tion, with an institutional commitment by the monetary authority to achieve these targets, typically over a medium-term horizon. Additional key features normally include increased communication with the public and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary policymakers and increased accountability of the central bank for achieving its inflation objectives. Monetary policy decisions are often guided by the deviation of forecasts of future inflation from the announced inflation target, with the inflation forecast acting (implicitly or explicitly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This category is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to a special tax. Bank commis- sions charged on foreign exchange transactions are not included in this category; rather, they are listed under the exchange arrangement classification. Foreign exchange transactions are subsidized by using separate, nonmar- ket exchange rates. The existence of a foreign exchange market. Other monetary framework Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Foreign exchange market International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 71 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Spot exchange market Operated by the central bank Interbank market Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Institutional setting of the foreign exchange market for spot transactions and market participants. Existence and significance of the parallel market. The role of the central bank in providing access to foreign exchange to market participants: foreign exchange standing facility, allocation of foreign exchange to authorized dealers or other legal and private persons, management of buy or sell auctions or fixing sessions. Price determination and frequency of central bank operations. A foreign exchange standing facility allows market participants to buy foreign exchange from or sell it to the central bank at predetermined exchange rates at their own initiative and is usually instrumental in main- taining a hard or soft peg arrangement. The credibility of the facility depends to a large extent on the availability of foreign exchange reserves to back the facility. Allocation involves redistribution of foreign exchange inflows by the central bank to market participants for specific international transac- tions or in specific amounts (rationing). Foreign exchange allocation is often used to provide foreign exchange for strategic imports such as oil or food when foreign exchange reserves are scarce. In an allocation system, companies and individuals often transact directly with the central bank, and commercial banks may buy foreign exchange only for their clients’ underlying international transactions. Purchases of foreign exchange for banks’ own books typically are not permitted. Auctions are organized by the central bank, usually for market partici- pants to buy and/or sell foreign exchange. Auctions can take the form of multiple-price auctions (all successful bidders pay the price they offer) or single-price auctions (all successful bidders pay the same price, which is the market-clearing/cut-off price). The authorities may exercise discre- tion in accepting or rejecting offers, and sometimes a floor price is deter- mined in advance, below which offers are not accepted. The frequency of auctions depends mainly on the amount or availability of foreign exchange to be auctioned and on the role the auction plays in the foreign exchange market. Fixing sessions are often organized by the central bank at the early stage of market development to establish a market-clearing exchange rate. The central bank monitors the market closely and often actively participates in price formation by selling or buying during the session to achieve a certain exchange rate target. The price determined at the fixing session is often used for foreign exchange transactions outside the session and/or for accounting and valuation purposes. The organization and operation of the interbank market; interven- tions. The existence of brokerage, over-the-counter, and market-making arrangements. The existence of a forward exchange market; institutional arrangement and market participants. Official coverage of forward operations refers to the case in which an offi- cial entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of certain foreign exchange transactions. 72 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The official requirements affecting the selection of currency and the method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to a prescription of currency for specified categories of payments to, and receipts from, the countries concerned. This category includes information on the use of domestic currency in transactions between residents and nonresidents, both domestically and abroad; it also indicates any restrictions on the use of foreign currency among residents. Two countries have an agreement to prescribe specific rules for payments to each other, including cases in which private parties are also obligated to use specific currencies. These agreements can be either operative or inoperative. More than two parties participate in a payments agreement. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset with some regularity the balances that arise from payments to each other as a result of the exchange of goods, services, or—less often—capital. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset exports of goods and services to one country with imports of goods and services from the same country, without payment. The authorities’ division of responsibility for monitoring policy, admin- istering exchange controls, and determining the extent of delegation of powers to outside agencies (banks are often authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions). Official or private residents of a member country default on their payments or transfers in foreign exchange to nonresidents. This cate- gory includes only the situation in which domestic currency is avail- able for residents to settle their debts, but they are unable to obtain foreign exchange—for example, because of the presence of an officially announced or unofficial queuing system; it does not cover nonpayment by private parties owing to bankruptcy of the party concerned. Separate rules for trading in gold domestically and with foreign countries. Regulations governing the physical movement of means of payment between countries. Where information is available, the category distinguishes between separate limits for the (1) export and import of banknotes by travelers and (2) export and import of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 73 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Resident Accounts Indicates whether resident accounts that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency, locally or abroad, are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described—for example, whether residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with or without approval from the exchange control authority, whether these accounts may be held domestically or abroad, and whether the balances on accounts held by residents in domestic currency may be converted into foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Indicates whether local nonresident accounts maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and opera- tion of the various types of accounts are also described. Accounts of nonresidents, usually in domestic currency. Regulations prohibit or limit the conversion and/or transfer of the balances of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Describes the nature and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports. Information on the existence of a foreign exchange plan, i.e., prior alloca- tion of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usually on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods and/or services; in some cases, also differentiating among individual importers. Information on specific import-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to enter into private contracts in which the financing options differ from those in the official regulations. The obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified (usually domestic) financial institution. Most often a compulsory government measure aimed at establishing the veracity of the import contract in terms of volume, quality, and price. Parties are obligated to use letters of credit as a form of payment for their imports. Import licenses are used not for trade purposes but to restrict the avail- ability of foreign exchange for legitimate trade. A list of goods that may be imported. A list of goods that may not be imported. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation require- ments for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list 74 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements. Refers to situations in which a license for the importation of a certain good is granted but a specific limit is imposed on the amount to be imported. May include prohibitions on imports of certain goods from all countries or of all goods from a certain country. Several other nontariff measures are used by countries (e.g., phytosanitary examinations, setting of standards), but these are not covered fully in the report. A brief description of the import tax and tariff system, including taxes levied on the foreign exchange made available for imports. Indicates if any taxes apply to the exchange side of an import transaction. Private parties are not allowed to engage in the importation of certain products, or they are limited in their activity. Exports and Export Proceeds Describes restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as well as regulations on exports. The obligation of exporters to repatriate export proceeds. Surrender to authorized dealers Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Regulations requiring the recipient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to the central bank. Regulations requiring the recipient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to commercial banks or exchange dealers autho- rized for this purpose or on a foreign exchange market. Information on specific export-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to enter into private contracts in which the financing options differ from those in the official regulations. The same categories as in the case of imports are used. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Restrictions on the right of residents to export goods. These restrictions may take the form of quotas (where a certain quantity of shipment abroad is allowed) or the absence of quotas (where the licenses are issued at the discretion of the foreign trade control authority). A brief description of the export tax system, including any taxes that are levied on foreign exchange earned by exporters. International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 75 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Describes the procedures for effecting payments abroad in connection with current transactions in invisibles, with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative and indicative limits, and/ or bona fide tests. Detailed information on the most common categories of transactions is provided only when regulations differ for the various categories. Indicative limits establish maximum amounts up to which the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed on declaration of the nature of the transaction, mainly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by the presentation of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also may be applied to transactions for which quantitative limits have not been established. Includes freight and insurance (including possible regulations on non- trade-related insurance payments and transfers), unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, and customs duties and fees. Includes profits and dividends, interest payments (including interest on debentures, mortgages, etc.), amortization of loans or depreciation of foreign direct investments, and payments and transfers of rent. Includes international travel for business, tourism, etc. Includes medical expenditures abroad, study expenses abroad, pensions (including regulations on payments and transfers of pensions by both government and private pension providers on behalf of nonresidents, as well as the transfer of pensions due to residents living abroad), and family maintenance and alimony (including regulations on payments and trans- fers abroad of family maintenance and alimony by residents). Transfer abroad of earnings by nonresidents working in the country. Use of credit and debit cards to pay for invisible transactions. Includes subscription and membership fees, authors’ royalties, consulting and legal fees, etc. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Describes regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transac- tions in invisibles—including descriptions of any limitations on their conversion into domestic currency—and the use of those receipts. The definitions of repatriation and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Personal payments Foreign workers’ wages Credit card use abroad Other payments Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Surrender to authorized dealers Restrictions on use of funds Refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain types of bank accounts. 76 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Capital Transactions Describes regulations influencing both inward and outward capital flows. The concept of controls on capital transactions is interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital transactions include prohibitions; need for prior approval, authorization, and notification; dual and multiple exchange rates; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the conclusion or execution of transactions or transfers and the holding of assets at home by nonresi- dents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations applies to receipts as well as to payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. In addition, because of the close association with capital transactions, information is also provided on local financial operations conducted in foreign currency, describing specific regulations in effect that limit residents’ and nonresidents’ issuance of securities denominated in foreign currency or, generally, limitations on contract agreements expressed in foreign exchange. The definitions of repatriation and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Surrender to authorized dealers Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Refers to public offerings or private placements on primary markets or their listing on secondary markets. Refers to shares and other securities of a participating nature and bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. Includes transactions involving shares and other securities of a participat- ing nature if they are not effected for the purpose of acquiring a last- ing economic interest in the management of the enterprise concerned. Investment for the purpose of acquiring a lasting economic interest is addressed under foreign direct investment. Bonds or other debt securities Refers to bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. The term “other debt securities” includes notes and debentures. Refers to securities with an original maturity of one year or less and includes short-term instruments, such as certificates of deposit and bills of exchange. The category also includes treasury bills and other short-term government paper, bankers’ acceptances, commercial paper, interbank deposits, and repurchase agreements. Includes share certificates and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an institution for collective investment, such as mutual funds, and unit and investment trusts. On collective investment securities On money market instruments International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 77 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Refers to operations in other negotiable instruments and nonsecured claims not covered under the above subsections. These may include opera- tions in rights; warrants; financial options and futures; secondary market operations in other financial claims (including sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable instruments originating as loans, receivables, and discounted bills of trade); forward operations (includ- ing those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (e.g., interest rate, debt/equity, equity/ debt, foreign currency, and swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Controls on operations in foreign exchange without any other underly- ing transaction (spot or forward trading on the foreign exchange markets, forward cover operations, etc.) are also included. Covers operations directly linked with international trade transactions or with the rendering of international services. Includes credits other than commercial credits granted by all residents, including banks, to nonresidents, or vice versa. Includes guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities provided by residents to nonresidents and vice versa. It also includes securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract—such as warrants, perfor- mance bonds, and standby letters of credit—and financial backup facili- ties that are credit facilities used as a guarantee for independent financial operations. Refers to investments for the purpose of establishing lasting economic relations both abroad by residents and domestically by nonresidents. These investments are essentially for the purpose of producing goods and services, and, in particular, in order to allow investor participation in the management of an enterprise. The category includes the creation or extension of a wholly owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the acquisition of full or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective influence over the operations of the enterprise. Refers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains, of a foreign direct investment as defined above. Refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct invest- ment, including, for example, investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Covers transfers initiated on behalf of private persons and intended to benefit other private persons. It includes transactions involving property to which the promise of a return to the owner with payments of interest is attached (e.g., loans or settlements of debt in their country of origin by immigrants) and transfers effected free of charge to the beneficiary (e.g., gifts and endowments, loans, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants’ assets). 78 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Provisions Specific to the Financial Sector Describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as mone- tary, prudential, and foreign exchange controls. Inclusion of an entry in this category does not necessarily signify that the aim of the measure is to control the flow of capital. Some of these items (e.g., borrowing abroad, lending to nonresidents, purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, investment regulations) may be repetitions of entries under respective categories of controls on capital and money market instruments, on credit operations, or on direct investments, when the same regulations apply to commercial banks as well as to other residents. Describes regulations on certain commercial bank balance sheet items (including capital) and on limits covering commercial banks’ positions in foreign currencies (including gold). Describes controls specific to institutions, such as insurance companies, pension funds, investment firms (including brokers, dealers, or advisory firms), and other securities firms (including collective investment funds). Incorporates measures that impose limitations on the composition of the institutional investors’ foreign or foreign currency assets (reserves, accounts) and liabilities (e.g., investments in equity capital of institu- tional investors or borrowing from nonresidents) and/or that differentiate between residents and nonresidents. Examples of such controls are restric- tions on investments because of rules regarding the technical, mathemati- cal, security, or mandatory reserves; solvency margins; premium reserve stocks; or guarantee funds of nonbank financial institutions. Inclusion of an entry in this category does not necessarily signify that the aim of the measure is to control the flow of capital. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies Pension funds Investment firms and collec- tive investment funds Listing conventions used in the report are as follows: • When it is unclear whether a particular category or measure exists—because pertinent information is not available at the time of publication—the category is displayed with the notation “n.a.” • If a measure is known to exist but specific information on it is not available, the category is displayed with the notation “yes.” • If no measures exist on any item within a category, the category is displayed with the notation “no.” • If members have provided the IMF staff with information indicating that a category or an item is not regulated, these are marked “n.r.” • When relevant documents have not been published and the authorities have not consented to the publica- tion of the information as included in the IMF staff report, the text reads, “Information is not publicly available.” International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 79 80 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first page of country chapter; symbol key at end of table) T n u o o t a r t l u n m b r e t i h o h f t m e e m b e r r e t a e c i e s w e s f u s A f g h a n t s i a n A l b a n i a A l r e g i a A n o g l a A n i t u g a a d n B a r d u b a A r e g n i t n a A r m e n i a A u r t s a i l a A u r t s i a A r e z b a j i a n Th e B a h a m a s B a h r a i n B a n g l a d e s h B a r b a o d s B e l a r u s B e l g i u m B e i l e z B e n n i B u h t a n B o i l v i a Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV 168 20 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating 13 11 42 21 2 15 ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ▲ Ì ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ 1 18 36 ● 29 * ● ● ⊕ ⊕ Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates 16 6 ● ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears 66 ● 28 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions 100 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements 86 60 ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors 151 127 ● 127 101 85 115 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● 78 151 42 144 ● 94 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● 170 ● 143 ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 81 B o s n i a a d n H v o g e z r e i n a B o s t w a n a B r z a l i B r n u e i D a r u s s a l a m B a g u l r i a B u r n k i a F a s o B u r d n u i C a o b V r e d e C a m d o b i a C a m r e n o o C a n a d a C e n r t a l A r f i a c n R e b u p i l c C h a d C h l i e C n h i a C o l o m b i a C o m o r o s C n o o g , m D e . R e p . o f C n o o g , R e b u p i l c o f C o t s a R i a c C ô t e d ’ I o v i e r C r o a i t a Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ▲ Ì ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ ◊ ◊ * ◊ ▲ ◊ ● ● ● ● ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first country page; symbol key at end of table) 82 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 C y p r u s C c e z h R e b u p i l c D e n m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i a c n R e b u p i l c E c u a o d r E y g p t E l S a l a v o d r E u q a t o r i a l G n u i a e E r a e r t i E t s n o i a E t p o h i i a F i j i n F i l a d n F r a n e c G a n o b G a m b i a , Th e G e o r g i a G r e m a n y G h a n a G e c e e r Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ v ▲ ◊ * ▲ ◊ ◊ ◊ ● ● ● ● ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first page of country chapter; symbol key at end of table) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 83 G e r n a d a G u a t e m a l a G n u i a e G n u i a e - B s s i a u G u a y n a H a i t i H u d n o r a s H n u a g r y e c I l a d n I d n i a I n o d n e i s a r I a n r I a q e r I l a d n r s I e a l t I a l y a J m a i a c a J p a n J o r d a n K a z a h k t s a n K e n a y K i r i b a i t Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating Ì ◊ ▲ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ * ● ● ● ● ● ● ⊕ ⊕ ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ – Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first country page; symbol key at end of table) 84 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 K o a e r K o s o v o K u w a t i K y r z y g R e b u p i l c L a P. o D . R . L a t v i a L e b a n o n L e s o t o h b L i r e i a a y b L i L t i u h a n i a u L e x m u o b r g M e c a n o d i a , f m r . o g u Y s l v a R e p . M a d a g a s a c r M a l a w i M a l y a i s a M a l d i e v s M a i l M a t l a M a s r h a l l s I l a d n s M a u r t i a n i a M a u r i t i u s Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ▲ ◊ v * Ì ○ ▲ ◊ ▲ ◊ ◊ ● ◊ ● ● ● ● ● ● ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – – – – – ● ● ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● – ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● – ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first page of country chapter; symbol key at end of table) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 85 M x e i c o M i c r n o e i s a M a v o d o l M n o o g i l a M n o t e n g e r o M o r o c c o M o a z m b i u q e M a y n m a r m N a i b i a N e p a l N e t h r e l a d n s N e Z w a e l a d n N i a c r u g a a N i r e g N i r e g i a N o r w y a m O a n P a k t s i a n P a l a u P a n a m a P a u p a N e w G n u i a e P a r u g a y a Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ◊ ▲ ◊ ◊ * Ì Ì ▲ ◊ ◊ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ⊕ ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first country page; symbol key at end of table) 86 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 P r e u h P i l i n p p i e s o P l a d n o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m a n i a R u i s s a w R a d n a S a m o a S a n M a r i o n S ã o T o m é a P d n r í n c i p e S a d u i A r a b i a S e n a g e l S r e b i a S c y e h e l l e s S i r r e a L e n o e n S i a g o p e r a v o S l k R e b u p i l c e v o S l n i a o S l o m n o s I l a d n s o S m a i l a u o S t h A r f i a c Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ▲ ◊ * ▲ ◊ ▲ * * ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – ● – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first page of country chapter; symbol key at end of table) International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 87 u o S t d u S h a n p S a i n S r i L a k n a S . t K s t t i a d n N v e s i S . t u L c i a S . t V i n e c n t a d n t h e G e r n a n d i e s d u S a n u S r i n a m e S w z a l i a d n S w e d e n S w t i r e z l a d n y S r i a T a i j k t s i a n T a n a z n i a Th a l i a d n T i m o - r L e t s e T o g o T n o a g T r i d n i a d a d n T b o o g a T n u i s i a T u r k y e T u r k m e n t s i a n Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Ì ▲ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ▲ * * ● * ● ● ● ⊕ ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears – – ● ● ● ● ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors – – – – – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – – – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first country page; symbol key at end of table) 88 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 Key ● Indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. Indicates that data were not available at the time of publication. Indicates that the specified practice is not regulated. Indicates that the country participates in the euro area. Indicates that the country participates in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM II). Indicates that flexibility is limited vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar. ▲ Indicates that flexibility is limited vis-à-vis the euro. Indicates that flexibility is limited vis-à-vis another single currency. Indicates that flexibility is limited vis-à-vis the SDR. Indicates that flexibility is limited vis-à-vis another basket of currencies. – ■ ⊕ v ◊ Ì ○ * T u a v l u U a g d n a U k r a i n e U n t i e d A r a b E m i r a t e s U n t i e d K i n o d g m U n t i e S d t a t e s U r u g u y a U z b e k t s i a n V a u n a t u V e n z e u e l a V i e t n a m Y e m e n Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e A r b u a H n o g K n o g S R A C u r a ç a o a n S d n i t M a a t r e n Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange Rate Arrangements No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating Ì ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates ● ● ● Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears ● ● ● ● ● ■ ■ ● ● ● – ● ● Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions – ● ● ● ● ● ● Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements – – ● ● ● ● ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● Capital Transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors – – – – – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – – – – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ■ ■ ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● – – ● ● ● ● – ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ■ ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in IMF Member Countries (As of date shown on first page of country chapter; symbol key at end of table) A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Country Table Matrix Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Date of membership Article VIII Article XIV Exchange Measures Restrictions and/or multiple currency practices Exchange measures imposed for security reasons In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Other security restrictions References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification No separate legal tender Currency board Conventional peg Stabilized arrangement Crawling peg Crawl-like arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Other managed arrangement Floating Free floating Official exchange rate Monetary policy framework Exchange rate anchor Monetary aggregate target Inflation-targeting framework International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 89 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Other monetary framework Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Foreign exchange market Spot exchange market Operated by the central bank Foreign exchange standing facility Allocation Auction Fixing Interbank market Over the counter Brokerage Market making Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Payments arrears Official Private 90 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) On domestic ownership and/or trade On external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 91 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Surrender to authorized dealers Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Collected through the exchange system 92 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Other export taxes References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test References to legal instruments and hyperlinks International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 93 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Surrender to authorized dealers Restrictions on use of funds References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender to the central bank Surrender to authorized dealers Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents 94 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings References to legal instruments and hyperlinks International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 95 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Provisions Specific to the Financial Sector Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Pension funds Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad 96 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Investment firms and collective investment funds Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition References to legal instruments and hyperlinks Changes during 2013 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange measures Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Repatriation and surrender requirements Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to the financial sector Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 97 A N N U A L R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S 2 0 1 4 Changes during 2014 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange measures Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Repatriation and surrender requirements Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to the financial sector Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors 98 International Monetary Fund | Oc tober 2014 