 T W E N T Y - N I N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1978 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution //* INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1978 Washington, D.C. 164178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund June 26, 1978 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Ninth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ J. DE LAROSIERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director v ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART I in Restrictive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxa- tion Advance Import Deposits Other Measures A f fec t ing Import Pay- ments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements Capital Flows Gold Movements III. Regional Arrangements Annex PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Bu rundi Cambodia * Cameroon Canada Cape Verde 3 6 6 6 8 9 9 10 10 12 13 15 15 19 19 25 28 29 32 35 40 45 49 52 53 58 61 66 69 71 72 81 83 85 88 90 * The Fund has not received f rom the au tho r i t ies of Cambodia the in fo rma t ion requ i red for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1977. vn CONTENTS Page Central African Empire Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwait Page 91 94 97 101 106 115 117 120 123 126 130 133 137 142 145 147 150 152 156 163 166 168 171 175 180 182 183 185 187 190 191 193 194 197 207 211 215 217 222 225 230 233 237 242 245 249 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal CONTENTS Page Page 255 256 258 259 260 263 266 268 271 272 274 276 278 281 283 287 290 294 296 300 302 305 309 312 313 319 320 322 325 331 336 341 342 345 347 349 350 Seychelles 353 Sierra Leone 354 Singapore 357 Solomon Islands 360 Somalia 362 South Africa 365 Spain 370 Sri Lanka 375 Sudan 380 Suriname 383 Swaziland 386 Sweden 387 Switzerland 391 Syrian Arab Republic 395 Tanzania 398 Thailand 400 Togo 403 Trinidad and Tobago 406 Tunisia 410 Turkey 414 Uganda 421 United Arab Emirates 424 United Kingdom 426 United States 437 Upper Volta 442 Uruguay 445 Venezuela 448 Viet Nam 450 Western Samoa 452 Yemen Arab Republic 454 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 455 Yugoslavia 457 Zaire 464 Zambia 468 Analytical Appendix 472 Vlll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 The world economy continued along the path of cyclical recovery in 1977, but progress was both uneven and, on average, slower than in 1976. Par- ticularly disappointing were the low rates of growth in output achieved by the industrial countries of Europe, where the average increase in real GNP was only about 2 per cent. The expansion in the United States and Japan, although somewhat stronger, showed a distinct deceleration in the course of 1977. For the industrial countries as a group, the year's advance in real output was less than 4 per cent, com- pared with almost 5.5 per cent in 1976. The gener- ally slow pace of economic activity in the indus t r ial world was manifested in a con t inua t ion of very high unemployment rates. Averaging slightly more than 5 per cent in 1977, unemployment remained close to the recession-induced peak in the second half of 1975 and substantially above the rates (in the range of 2.5-3.8 per cent) that prevailed dur ing the 1960s and early 1970s. Progress toward a fu r th er reduction of inflation in the industrial countries was limited. The rate of increase in prices averaged approximately 7 per cent, as measured by GNP deflators. The faltering of demand expansion in the indus t r ial countries during 1977 was accompanied by a marked deceleration of growth in the volume of world trade. Such growth is estimated at only 5 per cent, compared with an increase of 12 per cent in 1976 (fo l low ing a fall of 5 per cent in 1975) and an average annual increase of some 9 per cent du r ing the late 1960s and early 1970s. There was, however, a more marked increase in the value of fore ign trade. The renewed acceleration of increases in fore ign trade prices, stem- m ing mainly from sharp advances in prices of p r ima ry commodities during 1976 and the first half of 1977, helped to bolster the export ea rn ings of many devel- oping countries. Among such countries, the only major group whose export earnings did not outpace the rise in total value of world trade was the oil exporting group, for which export vo lume was almost unchanged from 1976 to 1977. The current account surplus of the ma jor oil ex- porting countries registered an appreciable decline in 1977, while the developed countries and the non-oil developing countries improved their current account positions. The last-mentioned group of countries, which were the main beneficiaries of buoyant com- 1 This Report centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and in tergovernmen tal a r rangemen ts that may have balance of paymen ts imp l ica t ions. The period covered is 1977 and the ear ly pa rt of 1978. modity prices prevailing through mid-1977, raised their export earnings by an amount appreciably larger than the continuing increase in their payments for imports and external services. Accordingly, their combined balance of payments deficit on current account declined in 1977 to about US$22 billion, compared with about US$26 billion in 1976 and a peak of US$37 billion in 1975. The decline in the group's aggregate current account deficit, which was rather unevenly distributed among developing regions and individual countries, together with the continued flow of concessionary aid, helped to ease the require- ment of this group as a whole for other external finance. As in 1976, several of the ma jor world currencies were the object of recurrent pressures in the foreign exchange market throughout much of the period under review, resulting in some sharp ad jus tmen ts in their market exchange rates. Changes in exchange values were especially pronounced in the latter part of 1977 and the first few months of 1978. Chief among the currencies which registered substantial changes in exchange rates were the Japanese yen, which in terms of its value against the U.S. dollar rose over most of the period. The currencies of the countries participating in the European common mar- gins arrangement,2 appreciated slightly vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar through September 1977 and then rose sharply in subsequent months. Divergences in under- lying economic conditions in the countries partici- pa t ing in the common margins arrangement were reflected in several realignments of the respective exchange rates of the currencies w i th in the arrange- ment. In April 1977, the Danish krone and the Nor- wegian krone were each depreciated by 3 per cent, and the Swedish krona was depreciated by 6 per cent, in terms of the value of the respective currencies vis-a-vis the SDR (as previously def ined in terms of gold) which is used as a num e r a i re for establishing in te rven t ion points under the common margins ar- rangement. Denmark communicated a new central rate vis-a-vis the SDR. A second realignment of rela- t ive exchange values of the currencies participating in the arrangement took place at the end of August, when Sweden w i thd rew from the arrangement and devalued the krona by 10 per cent vis-a-vis a basket of currencies of its main trad ing partners. Of the two other participating Scandinavian countries, Denmark communicated a new central rate and Norway estab- 2 Be lg ium, Denma rk, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Luxembourg, Ne the r lands, and Norway. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS lished new intervention points; these adjustments represented a depreciation of 5 per cent for both the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone, in terms of the value of the respective currencies vis-a-vis the SDR (as previously defined in terms of gold). A further adjustment took place in February 1978 when the intervention points of the Norwegian krone were again lowered, by 8 per cent. The Swiss franc, after remaining fairly steady against the U.S. dollar in the first eight months of 1977, registered a steep rise in the latter months of 1977 and the first quarter of 1978. Among other industrial countries, the exchange rate of the pound sterling in terms of the U.S. dollar remained relatively steady over the first ten months of 1977; it appreciated in the next four months but declined again in March 1978. The U.S. dollar rates for the French franc and the Italian lira moved within a narrow range over most of 1977; both currencies appreciated slightly in the early part of 1978. Over most of 1977 and early 1978, the Canadian dollar weakened against the U.S. dollar. On the basis of calculations using weights derived from the Fund's multilateral exchange rate model, there were sizable movements in the effective ex- change rates 3 of the currencies of a number of the industrial countries during the period under review. The movements in effective exchange rates were par- ticularly pronounced in the latter part of 1977 and the first quarter of 1978. Of the currencies whose effective exchange rates rose over the period, the sharpest increases were in those of the Japanese yen (24 per cent) and the Swiss franc (almost 17 per cent). The effective exchange rate of the deutsche mark increased by 1 per cent through June 1977 but then rose by 9 per cent in the following nine months. The effective exchange rates of the Austrian schilling, the Belgian franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the pound sterling registered relatively smaller increases than those mentioned above. In terms of their effec- tive exchange rates, the currencies of Canada, Nor- way, and Sweden declined appreciably, while those of Denmark, France, and Italy fell only moderately. 3 An index of effective exchange rates is designed to measure the average change of a country's exchange rate against all other currencies. In the calculation of such an index, a weight representing the comparative importance to the home economy of each foreign country is applied to the value, relative to a chosen base period, of the exchange rate between the foreign currency in question and the home cur- rency. The index based on the Fund's multilateral exchange rate model is one of several such indices using alternative weighting schemes. For further information on indices of effective exchange rates see Rudolf R. Rhomberg, "Indices of Effective Exchange Rates," IMF, Staff Papers, Vol. XXIII, No. 1, March 1976, pp. 88-112. 4 The effective exchange rate of the U.S. dollar de- clined slightly in the first half of 1977 and the down- ward movement gained momentum over the second half of the year and in the first quarter of 1978. The fall in the effective exchange rate of the U.S. dollar over this period about offset the increase registered between mid-1975 and the end of 1976. In addition to the exchange rate developments and official exchange rate actions described above, sev- eral major industrial countries issued statements in connection with exchange rate policies. In October 1977, the U.K. authorities announced a modification of the intervention policies of the Bank of England in the light of developments in the exchange markets. In January 1978 the United States reaffirmed that it would intervene to the extent necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets and that for this purpose it would utilize the Exchange Stabilization Fund of the U.S. Treasury and the US$20 billion swap network negotiated by the U.S. Federal Reserve System. In March 1978, the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany jointly announced further steps to counter disorderly market conditions, including the use of an augmented swap agreement between the central banks of the two countries. The exchange rate arrangements adopted by mem- bers over the past few years cover a broad spectrum, ranging from independent floating with relatively little attempt to influence market forces to the maintenance of a fixed peg against a single intervention currency. The fact that most major currencies float independ- ently implies, of course, that even countries that peg their currencies in some manner face variability in their bilateral exchange rates against currencies out- side their group. During the period under review, several countries changed their exchange rate ar- rangements, but the number of members adopting new exchange arrangements was considerably fewer than in the years immediately following the break- down in 1973 of the Smithsonian pattern of exchange rates. At the end of March 1978,4 96 members were maintaining a fixed relationship for the value of their currency in terms of another denominator. Of these currencies, 42 were pegged to the U.S. dollar and 23 were pegged to other currencies. The currencies of 14 members were pegged to the SDR, while those of another 17 were pegged to another composite of currencies. Five countries were periodically adjust- ing the exchange value of their currencies by small 4 Exchange arrangements maintained by member countries as of March 31, 1978 are shown in the Annex to Part I of this Report. See page 25. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION r> amounts according to a set of indicators, and 6 were participating in the European common margins ar- rangement. Twenty-five countries were ma in ta in ing other exchange rate arrangements. With the entry into force of the Second Amend- ment of the Articles of Agreement on April 1, 1978, members became subject to the obligation under Sec- tion 2 (a) of Article IV to no t i fy the Fund, w i th in 30 days, of the exchange arrangemen ts they intend to apply in fu l f i l lment of their obligations under Article IV, Section 1. Furthermore, members are obliged to no t i fy the Fund promptly of any subse- quent changes in their exchange arrangements. By the end of April 1978 most members had met their obligations in respect of the in i t ial notifications of exchange arrangements. In Ju ly 1977, the Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and member governments of the OECD (o ther than Spain) renewed, for a fu r ther year, the ir Trade Dec- laration of May 30, 1974 which provided for the avoidance by the participating countries of the use of trade restrictions for balance of paymen ts purposes. The Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotia- tions, with the participation of 98 countries, entered into an intensive phase. As indicated in last year's Report, concessions in the tropical products sector were implemented early in 1977 by a number of developed countries. Subsequently, in November 1977, the par t ic ipan ts submitted requests for conces- sions in the areas of non ta r i ff measures and agricul- ture, and in January 1978, most developed countries and a few developing countries submitted their offers of concessions. Substantial negotiations have com- menced on these requests and offers. Negotiations are also con t inu ing in the other fields covered by the mandate of the Tokyo Round. Against the background of the severe global pay- ments imbalances which emerged in the a f te rma th of the quadrupling of oil prices announced in 1973 and the world-wide recession which began in the follow- ing year, there was widespread concern that many of the countries facing growing balance of payments difficulties would turn to trade and payments restric- tions. It was for this reason that members were exhorted, in the Rome communique of the Fund's Committee of Twenty in January 1974, to avoid restrictions on current transactions and to meet the 5 Australia, Aus tr ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ire- land, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tu rkey, United Kingdom, and United States. suddenly arising payments difficulties through the financing of their shortfalls, thereby gaining time for a more orderly adjustment. Financial resources avail- able to members through the Fund were augmented for this purpose by the creation of the oil facility and through expanded access to other Fund facilities. In the event, the reduction in payments disequilibria and the increased availability of funds in the inter- national capital market, supplemented by the re- sources of the Fund, helped to moderate the recourse to current account restrictions for balance of pay- ments purposes. Such recourse was confined to certain countries experiencing prolonged payments difficulties. On the other hand, there were several countries which in the period covered by this Report undertook a major reversal of their policy of heavy reliance on external restrictions. A few of these countries implemented comprehensive reforms of their exchange systems and were able to eliminate, in whole or in part, existing restrictions on current payments, some of which had been introduced in the recent past, and to reduce the incidence of multiple currency practices. These actions were accompanied in some cases by the withdrawal of trade restrictions which had been imposed primarily for balance of payments reasons. However, there are still certain countries which, because of protracted payments problems, have not found it possible to reduce their reliance on restrictive trade and payments policies. A particularly disturbing feature in this situation is the rising number of countries with arrears on their current payments. In addition to the developments described above, the past several years have witnessed a perceptible rise in pressures for protection in many countries. These pressures have arisen from the disappointingly slow recovery of the world economy, with the con- comitant problem of continuing high unemployment. To this can be added longer-term structural problems in some key sectors, reflecting d i f fe ren t ial rates of growth of productivity in the face of limited resource mobility within certain industrial countries, and the increasing competitiveness of a number of developing countries that have advanced significantly along the path of industrialization. In the developed countries, the protectionist pressures have been manifested in actions designed to alleviate sectoral production and employment problems, particularly in certain labor- intensive industries. In the period under review, the European Economic Community (EEC) 6 and indi- 6 Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, and United Kingdom. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS vidual EEC countries, as well as the Un i ted States, Canada, and several other developed countries, made more frequent use of protective trade measures. These involved various forms of quan t i ta t ive limita- tions on imports and other actions, such as surveil- lance licensing of imports. There was also increasing use of antidumping and countervailing duties. In the present somewhat depressed state of in te rna t ional markets, it is often difficult to know whether such measures result from increased sensitivity to long- standing practices or whether they reflect an increased use of price cutting actions by exporting countries. At least in their initial impact, these measures tend to have a trade-retarding effect. There was also in- creased reliance on various types of bilateral arrange- ments, or export res tra int agreements, which place quan t i ta t ive limits on trade but wh ich are f requen t ly outside multilateral surveillance practices. Many of the measures adopted by the indus t r ial countries were aimed at or affected trade with other indus t r ial coun- tries, particularly trade between the United States, the EEC countries, and Japan. The trade- imped ing effect of these measures, as well as some measures by a number of developing countries, has been detri- mental to balanced growth of in te rna t ional trade. It has been par t icu lar ly h a rm ful to those developing countries that have sought to sustain the growth of the ir economies, in part th rough the expansion of non trad i t ional exports. The successful conclusion of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations that are now well under way therefore assumes great impor tance. Developments in policies on capital flows in the indus tr ial countries du r ing the period und er review were influenced by the f requent bouts of instability in exchange markets and the generally liquid condi- tions which prevailed in in te rna t ional capital marke ts, as well as by considerations relating to longer-term policies on capital movements. A few of these coun- tries with relatively strong currencies adopted meas- ures to lessen the attractiveness to non res iden ts of domestic assets, so as to ease upward pressures on their exchange rates. Actions of th is k ind became more f requent in the early mon ths of 1978. At the same time, a few of the industrial countries relaxed some of their long-standing controls on capital out- flows. Among the developing countries, there was an increased effort to adapt policies to mobilize increased foreign financial resources at a t ime of continued slack in the indus tr ial countries' demand for fund s, and to improve institutional arrangemen ts for the management of external indebtedness. During the period under review, five countries, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives, Sao Tome and Principe, 6 Seychelles, and Suriname became members of the Fund, bringing the membership to 134 countries. Two countries, Chile and Seychelles, accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, raising to 46 the number of members that have formally accepted these obliga- tions. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Imports and Import Payments a. Quantitative Import Controls The slow recovery of the world economy during the period under review was accompanied by a con- t inua t ion of the trend, noted in last year's Report, - toward increased reliance on trade restrictions. The maintenance of existing and the application of new quan t i ta t ive restraints on imports were often related to continued changes in the international competitive- ness of individual local industries. Measures to limit imports du r ing the period were in many cases aimed at specific commodities, especially in the sectors of steel, textiles, consumer durables, and shipbuilding. Ind iv idual import res tra int actions were applied glo- bally or on the basis of origin. The EEC 7 introduced prior authorization require- ments for imports of a wide range of textile products, pend ing the conclusion of bilateral agreements with the th ird countries concerned; in June 1977, agree- ments on these items were reached with Thailand and Yugoslavia. Quota limitations on textile imports from specified sources were also imposed by indi- v idual members of the EEC: France took steps to l im it the volume of textile imports from India and Korea; and the Benelux countries 8 introduced quotas on cotton fabrics and dresses from Egypt, India, Macao, Morocco, Singapore, and Tunisia. In addi- tion to placing quantitative limits on imports of tele- vision sets from Korea, the United Kingdom intro- duced quotas on imports of various clothing items f rom Pakistan and the Philippines, following consul- tations under Article III of the Multifiber Arrange- ment (MFA) 9 of the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs 7 Following the in t roduc t ion in December 1977 of a scheme of m i n im um applicable prices for certain steel prod- ucts, the EEC in Janua ry 1978 applied provisional an t idump- ing du t ies on specified steel items imported f rom several countries at prices below those specified. On the other hand, in Ap r il 1977, the EEC te rm ina ted the safeguard action under which the EEC ma rket had for several years been v i r tua l ly closed to some beef exporting countries. 8 Belgium, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 9 At the end of 1977, the MFA was extended for another period of four years. Bilateral agreements to be concluded under the extended MFA provide for the possibility of "rea- sonable depar tures" f rom ce r ta in e lemen ts of the agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES and Trade (GATT ); imports of unde rga rmen ts from Brazil and Spain into the Un i ted Kingdom were also restricted. Other import restricting measures by the EEC countries included those relating to items of Japanese origin. Thus, pend ing the conclusion of bilateral discussions aimed at reduc ing Japan's t rade surplus with the EEC, Italy introduced a quota on imports of certain makes of motorcycles f rom that country. In a number of European coun tr ies, however, there was an easing of quan t i ta t ive import res tr ic t ions. Norway waived licensing requ iremen ts for textile im- ports originating in or channe led th rough the EEC and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) ,10 and Sweden abolished surveillance licensing of im- ports of textiles and other specified goods f rom the EEC and the EFTA. Iceland l if ted import controls on television sets and certain food items, while Spain and Yugoslavia raised the import quotas on several specified consumer goods, inc lud ing pharmaceuticals. In several other non indu s t r ial coun tr ies of Europe, on the other hand, q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions were tightened. Malta in troduced l icens ing requ i remen ts and quotas on imports of a wide range of com- modities, including telegraphic equ ipmen t, add ing machines, and timber; temporary proh ib i t ions were also imposed on several other items such as luxu ry automobiles, cigarettes, f resh mea t, and pesticides. In Portugal, quotas were introduced on a list of com- modities accounting for about 7 per cent of 1976 imports, including foods tu f fs, domestic appliances, and automobiles; in addition, all import items cov- ered by Portugal's advance import deposit require- ment became subject to prior authorization. Turkey took steps to prohibit imports of luxu ry automobiles. In December 1977, the U.S. au tho r i t ies announced a five-point plan aimed at s treng then ing the domestic steel indus try, including a trigger price mechan ism to monitor imports of steel mill products. This mecha- nism is intended to enable the U.S. au tho r i t ies to identify steel imports which appear to be priced below "fair value" under the U.S. A n t i d um p i ng Act, and to determine on an expedited basis whe ther such sales are in fact below fa ir value. The trigger prices are based on costs of production in Japan, considered at present to be the most efficient producer of these products.11 The first list of such prices was published 10 Au s t r ia, Iceland, No rway, Po r tuga l, Sweden, and Swit- ze r land. F in land is an associate membe r. 11 Import control deve lopmen ts in the Un i t ed States were in large pa rt re la ted to o f f ic ial decisions concern ing the inci- dence of dump ing of specific impo rt i tems. Fo l low ing a de term ina t ion that ma jor Japanese p roduce rs were d um p i ng in February 1978. With respect to other products, import control measures in the United States also included bilateral export restraint agreements with ind iv idual t rad ing par tners. Exporting countries with which the United States concluded such agreements du r ing the period under review, included the Repub- lic of China with respect to foo twear and color tele- vision sets, Hong Kong with respect to textiles, Korea with respect to footwear, textiles, and color television sets, and Japan as regards color television sets. A f ter tak ing steps in October 1976 to substitute for the rema inder of the year import quotas on meat items for the export res tra int agreement with ma jor meat exporters, the United States on January 1, 1977, renewed the export res tra int agreement. The U.S. au thor i t ies eased quota limits on specified specialty steel products, and authorized additional exports of cer ta in steel products by EEC coun tr ies to the Un i ted States a f ter March 25, 1977. Invok ing the safeguard provision of Article XIX of the GATT, Canada introduced in 1976 global import quotas on certain clothing items and on one type of acrylic yarn. These measures were ma in ta ined in 1977. A fu r th er global import quota under Arti- cle XIV of the GATT was introduced for a two-year period in April 1977 on double-knit fabrics. Addi- t iona l ly, under the Arrangements Regarding In terna- t ional Trade in Textiles, restraints were implemented on imports of specified fabrics and household textiles f rom selected low-cost suppliers which had been de term ined to be i n j u r i ng domestic manu fac tu re rs. Imports of footwear from all sources were placed under global quota in December 1977 for a three- year period.12 W i th in the group of more developed p r ima ry pro- duc ing countries, Aus tra l ia reimposed the quota which had been l i f ted at the end of 1976 on imports of automobiles, but eased quotas on certain kn i t ted fab r ics and paper products. New Zealand shifted several items to a restricted list requ i r ing individual import licenses, and prohibited a number of import items, inc lud ing blankets, rugs, and secondhand clothing. South Afr ica announced that me rchan ts cer ta in steel p roduc ts in the U.S. m a r k e t, the impo r t e rs con- cerned were requ ired to post bonds equ iva lent to the esti- ma ted d um p i ng du t ies of 32 per cent in respect of all f u r t h er impo r ts of these items f rom Japan. In a numb er of cases de ta i led indu s t ry s tud ies by the U.S. au tho r i t ies led to the d e t e rm in a t ion th at no a n t i d um p i ng or s im i l ar impo rt control measures needed to be taken. 12 Canada inves t iga ted a n um b er of a l lega t ions of d um p i ng of specific p roduc ts, and subsequen t ly took a n t i d um p i ng actions on impo r ts of ce r ta in acids, specified categories of foo twear and steel produc ts, and ce r ta in chemical products. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS wishing to import capital goods must provide proof that the items concerned were unavailable in the domestic market and were required only to replace depleted stocks. Significant steps to liberalize quantitative import restrictions were taken by a number of developing countries, including India, Lebanon, Mexico, and Sri Lanka. Reflecting a marked strengthening in its ex- ternal reserve position, India shifted a wide range of commodities to the free import list, and took steps to liberalize the import licensing system. In Lebanon licensing requirements were abolished on all but a few items, including certain textile and agricultural products. Mexico abolished import licensing require- ments for items in over 2,000 tariff headings. Under a major program to liberalize its exchange and trade system, Sri Lanka abolished prior licensing require- ments with the exception of a small list of commodi- ties. Among other countries, Argentina continued its program of import liberalization and lifted the pro- hibition on certain items, including cigarettes and tractors; Brazil removed a number of items from the list of suspended imports; and Chile abolished prior certification requirements as a condition for import registration at the Central Bank. Colombia transferred a large number of import categories from the list of goods requiring prior licensing to the freely import- able list; however, imports of certain types of auto- mobiles were prohibited. Ghana relaxed import licensing requirements in respect of firms producing basic domestic consumer goods or for export, and Pakistan introduced some liberalization of controls within the framework of the import program for 1977/78, including a doubling of the import allow- ance for spare parts. Quantitative import controls were intensified, however, in several developing coun- tries, notably Guyana, Jamaica, Morocco, and Nigeria. Following the suspension until mid-January 1977, of the issuance of licenses for all nonemergency imports, Guyana introduced a licensing system based on the availability of foreign exchange. In Jamaica, some 128 import items were placed on the prohibited list, while 9 others became subject to specific licenses. The 1978 import program in Morocco entailed a shift of a large number of imports from the liberalized to the licensed category and a few imports were pro- hibited. The importation of a wide range of products was either prohibited or made subject to specific licensing in Nigeria. Among other developing coun- tries, the list of prohibited or suspended imports was expanded in Bolivia, Fiji, Madagascar, Tanzania, and Thailand, while Iran, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, 8 Mauritius, and Zaire enlarged the list of import items subject to prior authorization. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Several countries abolished or substantially cur- tailed their reliance on import surcharges as a means of import control. In Israel, the import surcharge which had been in existence since 1970 was abolished in October 1977 as part of a comprehensive reform of the exchange and trade system. Spain removed the 20 per cent surcharge which had been introduced in 1976 on items comprising 40 per cent of annual imports in that year. Uruguay introduced a number of measures to reduce the impact of existing import surcharge measures, including the elimination of the 7 per cent emergency surtax introduced in December 1975, the lowering of the remaining surcharges to a maximum rate of 90 per cent, and the extension until December 1977 of the import surcharge exemptions granted to certain local industries; however, certain goods, previously exempted, became subject to the minimum surcharge of 10 per cent. Bolivia, the Netherlands Antilles, and Yugoslavia also took steps to exempt imports by certain local industries from the prevailing surcharges; in Yugoslavia, however, the import surcharge scheme was again extended, until the end of 1977. There was an increased reliance on import sur- charges by a number of member countries. Bolivia extended existing import surcharges to a wide range of goods, and Canada imposed a surcharge on certain imports from the Republic of China. In Cyprus, a 2 per cent surcharge was levied on all imports except foodstuffs, Pharmaceuticals, and imports by the gov- ernment sector. In Portugal, the import surcharge on luxury goods applying to about 2 per cent of Por- tugal's imports in 1976 was increased from 30 per cent to 60 per cent; in May 1978, however, Portugal announced that it would phase out the 30 per cent surcharge applying to about 29 per cent of 1976 imports. Senegal introduced a 25 per cent surtax on imports of automobiles. With the exception of the so-called bound items within the framework of the GATT, imports into South Africa became subject to a 15 per cent surcharge; the surcharge was later re- duced to 12.5 per cent. In addition to expanding the coverage of the existing surcharge of 30 per cent on textile imports, Thailand introduced surcharges of 10-50 per cent on a few other items. The tariff harmonization between the original six members of the EEC and the United Kingdom, Den- mark, and Ireland was completed in July 1977. At the same time, most tar iffs (except for those on agricul- tural products and some industrial items) between the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES EEC and the EFTA, including its associate member Finland, were reduced to zero. The United States in April 1977 raised from 9 per cent to 20 per cent the "entry bond" required to be posted by importers of Japanese color television sets, as a means of covering potential countervailing duties. Canada withdrew the preferential tariff treatment previously accorded until 1979 to imports of certain types of color tele- vision sets from the United Kingdom. Among other countries, Argentina lowered ta r i f fs on a wide range of imports and in Chile, general tar iff reductions were made on three occasions as part of a program to reduce all import ta r i f fs to a un iform level of 10 per cent by mid-1979. Selective import ta r i ff reduc- tions were made in several countries, such as Ghana and India. Selective increases in import ta r i f fs were introduced in a number of other countries, including Australia, the Dominican Republic, Malawi, Pakis- tan, and Sierra Leone. Within the framework of the Generalized System of Tariff Preferences (GSP ), several industrial coun- tries introduced fur ther tar iff concessions for imports from developing countries. The EEC countries added a number of tropical products to their coverage of the GSP, and introduced, inter alia, special conces- sions in favor of the least developed countries. While granting duty-free treatment to some 121 items under the GSP scheme, the United States withdrew about 115 other items from this scheme. In Norway, several products were added to the du ty-free list under the GSP scheme, and more countries were also made eligible for the scheme, including Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Romania, and Sao Tome and Principe. Canada announced the reduction or elimi- nation of duties on a most-favored-nation basis or on a preferential basis under the general preferential tariff in respect of certain imports f rom developing countries. c. Advance Import Deposits During the period under review, member countries, on balance, appear to have reduced their reliance on advance import deposit schemes. Several countries abolished prior import deposit requirements; in Por- tugal, South Africa, and Zaire, elimination of the requirements was effected in the context of policy programs related to the use of Fund resources. Among other countries, Brazil exempted a number of items from the prior import deposit requirement. Colombia introduced a payment deposit scheme as a condition for obtaining exchange licenses, but granted some exemptions from the existing prior import deposit scheme. In El Salvador, the coverage of the pre- vailing 100 per cent advance deposit scheme was reduced from 7 per cent to 4 per cent of annual imports. The percentage of required prior margin deposits for certain imports was reduced in Ghana. In Greece, the authorities terminated the advance import deposit scheme in respect of several products, amounting to an 8 per cent reduction in the com- modity coverage of the scheme. Finland reduced the coverage of its advance import deposit scheme from 35 per cent to 30 per cent of total imports. In Yugo- slavia, the authorities allowed the prior import de- posit scheme on certain items to lapse, as scheduled, in February 1977. A few other countries introduced new or in- creased existing advance deposit requirements for imports. Early in 1977, Indonesia introduced a 100 per cent advance import deposit for certain imports; it also imposed a 100 per cent guarantee deposit and a 100 per cent advance payment of import duties for imports where domestic demand was judged to have been met. A prior import deposit scheme was intro- duced in Mauritius, while New Zealand on two occa- sions extended for six additional months, the advance import deposit scheme which was previously sched- uled to expire in February 1977; the scheme was suspended in February 1978. Nigeria in April 1978 introduced a compulsory advance deposit requirement on letters of credit for all imports except raw ma- terials, capital goods, and food items. Turkey intro- duced substantial increases in the guarantee deposits in respect of certain import items. d. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments Several member countries relaxed official regula- tions on the terms of import payments. In Japan, the authorities increased the limit on payments for imports that could be made without verification by the banks, relaxed requirements on the standard method of import settlement, and introduced a scheme providing for import financing in certain cases at prime interest rates. Other countries which took steps to liberalize regulations on import payments included Argentina, Bangladesh, Colombia, Denmark, India, Nepal, Portugal, Spain, and Uruguay. There was a tightening of regulations on import payments in several countries. The Dominican Re- public reduced the list of items eligible for financing through the banking system, thereby requiring such imports to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange. Indonesia introduced regulations requiring sight letters of credit for all private imports, although early in 1978 this regulation was liberalized. Nigeria strengthened the documentation requirements and general administrative controls in respect of letters of credit, sight payments, and bills for collection for 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS imports of plant, mach inery, and equ ipmen t. The Philippines abolished prior approval requ iremen ts for some import items, but ex tended such require- ments to other import items. The United Arab Emirates introduced, and the Yemen Arab Republic increased, cash margin requ iremen ts in connection with the opening of import letters of credit. The period covered by this Report witnessed the elimination of commercial paymen ts arrears in the Dominican Republic, Egypt, and Sierra Leone. Pay- ments arrears declined in Uganda, which adopted the practice of setting aside funds on a monthly basis to effect reductions in arrears. Ou ts tand ing arrears in- creased in Zaire and Zambia. In the fo rmer country, commercial banks were required to t ran s fer all im- port paymen ts arrears to the Bank of Zaire; a similar practice was introduced in Zambia. In Ghana arrears on import paymen ts, which had been eliminated by the end of 1975, re-emerged toward the end of 1976. Guinea-Bissau also continued to have arrears. In several countries, namely, Guyana, Jamaica, Sudan, and Turkey, payments arrears emerged du r ing the period covered by this Report. In connection with programs in support of the use of Fund resources by Turkey and Zambia, provision was made for the phas ing out of paymen ts arrears. e. State Trading The scope for fore ign trade by official en t i t ies was noticeably reduced in some countries, but widened in others. India placed on open general license, a large number of import items h i ther to handled by official agencies, and Pakistan also reduced the scope of state trading. Sri Lanka term ina ted import monopolies previously held by several state enter- prises, and appreciably reduced state control over external trade. On the other hand, Algeria estab- lished a state monopoly for all foreign exchange transactions. The commodity range of state trad ing was also extended in Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, and Iran. Early in 1978 Guyana announced that all foreign trade would hence fo r th be the responsibility of the State. 2. Exports and Export Proceeds Du r ing the period under review, a number of coun- tries introduced new or expanded ex is t ing export subsidy and incentive schemes. Of increas ing import- ance was the provision of special f inanc ing facilities for exports, usually accompanied by concessional rates of interest. A number of developed countries, and some developing countries, improved their exist- ing financing arrangements for exports, while there was more widespread use of government export credit 10 guaran tees and exchange risk guarantees on exports. Actions involving quantitative limitations on exports usually involved the application or removal of restric- tions on particular commodities for domestic supply purposes. There was a small but increasing number of such actions on the part of individual countries, however, which reflected the use of export restraint agreements with partner countries. Argentina raised the level of export rebates for a number of specified commodities and extended, until the end of 1979, the system of income-tax refunds on a specified proportion of exports. Bolivia enacted a new law providing, inter alia, for fiscal incentives for nontraditional exports. Brazil enlarged the applica- tion of fiscal incentives, previously reserved for exports, to domestic sales of Brazilian-made ma- chinery and equipment to specified foreign firms in Brazil, provided that the products are paid for in foreign currency. In Colombia, the system of tax credit certificates was adjusted so as to grant certifi- cates at higher rates to nontraditional exports; pref- erential trea tment was accorded to labor-intensive industries and those dominated by small and medium- sized firms. Ghana raised the export bonus for nontraditional exports and announced the application of an export bonus to most other exports. Exporters of specified commodities benefited from increased subsidies or tax rebates in India and Turkey; how- ever, at the end of February 1978 the latter country substantially reduced its export rebates. Mexico reinstituted rebates of indirect taxes on exports of manufac tures and New Zealand extended the cov- erage of the existing tax-incentive scheme for exports. Portugal introduced a scheme for tax incentives for exports for the period 1977-79. On the other hand, Israel eliminated its long-standing system of export rebates when it announced its major reform of the exchange and trade system in October 1977. In con junc t ion with ma jor exchange reforms, Nepal and Sri Lanka eliminated discriminatory export incentive schemes operated through the exchange system. Under an accord reached in March 1977, the EEC countries agreed to standardize export credit facilities in its member countries by adopting un i fo rm interest rates and repayment periods for credits granted to foreign impor t ing countries. This agreement followed a "consensus" reached in the previous year between a number of European countries, Canada, Japan, and the United States on the coordination of regulations relating to export financing. Early in 1978 the countries subscribing to the 1976 consensus an- nounced that they had decided to renew that arrange- ment for an indef in i te period, subject to annual review. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Among individual industrial countries, Austria established a special rediscount facility for export bills, and later doubled the amount available under the scheme. In France, new measures of financial assistance to exporters included government loans to exporting firms and loans to governments of devel- oping countries to facilitate the purchase of French capital goods. France also raised the global ceiling on short-term bank export credits to small and medium- sized firms. Switzerland extended, on two occasions, the gentleman's agreement on the preferential redis- counting of export bills for specified commodities. In the United Kingdom, the Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) indicated in February 1977 that it would no longer make available guaranteed sterling finance for contracts requiring the support of non-U.K. concerns and that it would underwr i te large projects only if financing was in foreign cur- rency. The United Kingdom also announced a new scheme to help companies in financing the cost of developing new export markets. New arrangements for sterling financing for exports with credit terms of two years or more were introduced by the ECGD with effect from April 1, 1978; under these arrange- ments banks could carry, with ECGD guarantee, a higher proportion of export financing. The Export- Import Bank of the United States (Ex imbank) low- ered interest rates on loans to finance exports, and in December 1977 the United States announced an in- crease in the funds available for export credits. Among the developing countries, Argentina revised its system of financial incentives for exports in the form of prefinancing and abolished the system of "postfinancing," under which credit was granted for export contracts already entered into. These changes involved a significant reduction of Argentina's sub- sidies for exports. A new export finance system came into effect in Argentina on Janua ry 1, 1978, under which exporters were entitled to loans covering 80 per cent to 90 per cent of their exports. Colombia announced a rediscount fac i l i ty for the financing of exports of capital goods at preferen t ial interest rates; the scheme was later extended to the financing of projects directly involving exports of both goods or services; the facility was to become effective one year after its establishment. Pakistan reduced interest rates under its refinancing facility for exports, and later simplified its export finance scheme. Redis- counting facilities for exports were also improved in Malaysia and the Philippines. In Uruguay, there was a reduction in the proportion of exports which could be prefinanced and an increase in Central Bank commissions on such financing. Several countries modified their systems of guar- antees and insurance on export credits, or exchange risks insurance. France adapted the scheme proposed by the Compagnie Frangaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE ), which provides insurance against abnormal domestic price increases affecting export contracts. In assessing the premium payable on the basis of the inflation guarantee, French companies were required, from March 1977, to pay a surcharge equivalent to one third of the deprecia- tion of the French franc against the SDR. The Fed- eral Republic of Germany approved an increase in the credit ceiling for export credit insurance. Japan introduced an export bond insurance scheme to cover the calling of exporters' bonds; these bonds are re- quired from exporters of industrial equipment at the signing of the contract. Norway raised the ceiling on government guarantees for ordinary export credits as well as the ceiling under the special arrangement covering exports to and investments in developing countries. Portugal established an exchange risk insurance fund. In the United Kingdom, the ECGD provided exchange rate cover to exporters for up to nine months from the date of fixing a tender price in foreign currency. Among other countries, forward cover arrangements for exports were established in Bangladesh and Pakistan. A number of countries abolished or eased quantita- tive restrictions on exports of specified products. Lebanon eliminated export licensing for a large num- ber of commodities in April 1977, and in June termi- nated licensing requirements for most other export items. India announced an overhaul of administrative procedures for exports and dur ing the period removed the prohibition on certain exports while imposing temporary restrictions on a few others. Export pro- cedures were also simplified in Bangladesh. Pro- hibitions on specified exports were also terminated in Argentina, Australia, and Pakistan, while quantitative controls on some export items were relaxed in Co- lombia, Sri Lanka, and Turkey. Colombia, however, added some items to the list of exports subject to approval and to the list of products exportable only by producers and subject to quotas. Colombia also added certain basic foods tu f fs to the list of suspended exports to relieve domestic supply scarcities. Argen- tina prohibited exports of live cattle and applied a quota to exports of soya meal, while Brazil temporarily suspended exports of soya meal. Canada reduced the export quota for petroleum and the Federal Re- public of Germany announced that henceforth it would no longer approve the sale of nuclear fuel processing plants and related technology. Measures 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS to prohibit or restrict exports of specified commodi- ties were also introduced in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, and Sudan. In addition to the actions described above, a number of countries took steps to limit exports of certain commodities under the provisions of export restraint agreements negotiated with im- porting countries. In the area of export taxation, there was a notice- able trend, particularly among developing countries, to apply new or to increase existing taxes on exports of primary commodities whose prices had risen sharply in world markets. Coffee exports were sub- jected to tax increases in a number of countries, among them Brazil, Kenya, and Zaire. Brazil intro- duced new regulations providing for the application of a tax of 10 per cent on any export product; the tax may be raised to 40 per cent, if needed, to meet foreign exchange and trade policy objectives. Argen- tina raised the statistical tax on exports f rom 0.3 per cent to 1 per cent, and Western Samoa applied a levy to the export of cocoa and copra. On the other hand, Canada lowered the levies on exports of petroleum and petroleum products, India reduced the export duty on coffee, while Nepal abolished export duties on a large number of commodities and Uruguay eliminated taxes on exports of beef. Regulations governing the surrender of exchange proceeds from exports were modified in several coun- tries. Argentina liberalized and in some cases abolished surrender requirements for exports and relaxed the prescription of currency requirements. Surrender requirements were also eased in Chile and Jordan, and were modified in Colombia. Turkey relaxed regulations relating to commodity exports on credit terms. Uruguay reduced the subsidy on the conversion of foreign currency deposits into peso credits to exporters, while in Zaire exporters were permitted to hold a specified proportion of export earnings in foreign currency accounts. Ethiopia ceased to permit exports on a consignment basis. 3. Current Invisibles Reflecting the easing of pressures on its external payments position, Italy terminated most of its restrictions on current payments for invisibles. Some of the other developed countries also relaxed existing regulations relating to invisibles, as did several devel- oping countries which in the previous year had introduced new or intensified existing restrictions in the face of increased payments difficulties. However, a few countries introduced new restrictions on invis- ibles, usually in conjunction with other trade and payments measures, as a means of alleviating balance 12 of payments pressures or to prevent unauthorized capital outflows. During the first half of 1977 Italy abolished the re- strictions arising from the noninterest-bearing deposit requirement on purchases of foreign exchange, and the exchange tax applied to purchases of foreign ex- change; these measures had been introduced in 1976. Italy also raised the limit on purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad. Japan announced several measures to relax exchange controls on invisible transactions. These included the removal of limita- tions on current payments such as medical and educa- tional expenses and the abolition of ceilings on the amount of foreign currency which could be taken out of Japan by persons traveling abroad. Early in 1978 Japan announced a series of measures fur ther liberal- izing exchange controls. The limit on remittances for external transactions not requiring individual approval was raised from US$3,000 to US$12,000, while limits on exchange for travel and other specific purposes were abolished. In the United Kingdom there was an increase in the amount which could be remitted abroad in the fo rm of cash gifts, and in the amount of sterling and foreign currency notes which could be taken out by travelers. The limit on foreign cur- rency issuable without reference to the Bank of England for travel abroad was raised. Among developing countries, Singapore announced that, with effect from June 1, 1978, exchange controls would be abolished. Argentina removed all limits on purchases of foreign exchange for travel and freely permitted all sales of exchange up to US$1,000, re- gardless of purpose; the limit was subsequently raised to US$5,000. In November 1977 India raised the exchange allowance for tourism from US$100 to US$500. Israel removed the limit on business travel exchange allocations, and raised substantially the limit for other forms of travel. As part of the reform of its exchange system in November 1977, Sri Lanka introduced exchange allocations for travel abroad. Zambia withdrew the prohibition on the purchase of exchange for travel and established an allocation for tourist travel. On the other hand, a number of countries imposed more restrictive measures on the purchase of travel exchange. Brazil on two occasions increased the deposit requirement on the issuance of passports and exit visas, payment of which is a con- dition for the purchase of exchange for travel. Ghana applied a levy of 10 per cent to the purchase of foreign exchange for travel and later raised the levy to 30 per cent. Jamaica sharply reduced the exchange allocation for tourist travel, applied limits to exchange for business travel, and made purchases for business ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES travel subject to specific approval. Ethiopia elimi- nated its exchange allocations for some forms of tourist travel but increased allocations for business travel, while Nigeria reduced the basic tourist ex- change allocation. Other countries which tightened regulations on travel exchange included Thailand and Zaire. In Guyana, there was an increase in the tax on airline tickets. Israel, however, abolished its travel tax. Exchange allocations for study or medical treatment abroad were liberalized in Colombia, El Salvador, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Zambia. Exchange controls or restrictions relating to the remittance abroad of income, including the t rans fer of profits and dividends, were relaxed in a number of countries. In several other countries they were in- tensified, and at times were extended to payments of interest on private nonguaranteed foreign borrowing. Argentina eliminated the requirement that payment abroad of profits, dividends, and royalties be made by way of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by the Government, while Somalia raised substantially the proportion of capital invested which could be remitted abroad as profits. The ceiling on remittances abroad of profits and dividends was raised in Sri Lanka. Zambia lifted the prohibition on the remit- tance of rental income, raised the limit on profit remittances by farmers but withdrew income remit- tance facilities previously granted to foreign-controlled companies, and imposed tighter controls on salary remittances by foreign nationals. Other countries which liberalized regulations on income and related remittances included Bangladesh, Greece, and Guinea- Bissau. More restrictive regulations on remittance of income and other payments for invisibles were applied in Jamaica where, in principle, no exchange was made available for income remittances f rom emigrants' property in Jamaica and for remittances for fam i ly maintenance. Payments and transfers in respect of interest on private nonguaranteed debt were made subject to approval on a delayed basis; as a result, arrears of interest payments on such debt emerged in Jamaica during 1977. Arrears on remittances of dividends continued to exist in Madagascar. The permissible level of salary remittances was reduced in Ethiopia. In South Africa, transfers abroad of divi- dends of foreign companies, which had been per- mitted in respect of those earned since January 1, 1960, were limited to dividends earned since Jan- uary 1, 1975. In India and Sudan, special facilities were provided to nationals working abroad in respect of income remitted to their home country. Early in 1978, in conjunction with an adjustment of the exchange rate of the Turkish lira, the special arrangements with respect to inward remitttances by Turkish nationals working abroad ceased to yield a more depreciated effective rate. Several countries introduced more liberal regula- lations affecting transfers of invisibles related to trade transactions, insurance, and maritime contracts. Thus, Argentina, Chile, and Colombia eliminated the prior approval requirement for various categories of service payments, while Pakistan restored permission for transfers to India for settlement of specified invis- ible transactions. Jamaica, however, subjected pay- ments and transfers in respect of certain insurance- related transactions to approval on a delayed basis. Restrictions on the import and export of domestic banknotes were eased in several countries. Italy lifted the ban on the export of banknotes in denominations of Lit 20,000 and Lit 50,000, while maintaining the prohibition on the export of Lit 100,000 banknotes, and Austria lifted the restrictions on the exchange of I t a l i an b a n k n o t es in d e n om i n a t i o ns e x c e e d i ng Lit 10,000. Iceland increased the amount of domes- tic banknotes which travelers could take out or bring into the country, and Israel lifted the restrictions on the import of domestic banknotes while permitting the export of domestic currency by residents up to the max imum provided by the travel allowance, and up to I <£ 1,000 in the case of nonresidents. Japan raised the ceiling on yen currency which may be taken out by travelers and also simplified procedures for remit- tances abroad and for the purchase of exchange for foreign travel. Ethiopia, on the other hand, reduced the amount of domestic banknotes which could be taken out or brought into the country, while in Sweden the Riksbank would no longer purchase bank- notes in denominations in excess of SKr 100 from abroad. At the end of February 1978, Switzerland reimposed a quarterly limit of Sw F 20,000 a person on the value of foreign banknotes which could be imported. 4. Multiple Currency Practices During the period under review four countries officially unified their dual exchange rate systems, while one country established a dual exchange mar- ket. Chile formally unified its exchange system in June 1977 by abolishing the brokers' exchange mar- ket; rates in the official and the brokers' exchange markets had been identical since August 25, 1975. In October, Peru established a single exchange mar- ket covering all permitted transactions, and abolished the two official exchange markets, the certificate market and the d r a ft market. Exchange rates in 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS these markets had been effectively unified since Sep- tember 1975. In December, however, authorized banks were permitted to issue freely negotiable certifi- cates of deposit denominated in foreign currency; these certificates may be used to effect payments for imports, thereby giving rise to a different effective exchange rate. Sri Lanka unified its exchange rate system in November 1977 by abolishing the certifi- cate market arrangement ( the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate Scheme) which had been operated at a premium of 65 per cent in terms of the domestic currency cost of foreign exchange. Jamaica introduced a dual exchange market in April 1977. The exchange market was split into a "basic" market, where essential imports and transactions of the Gov- ernment and most transactions of the bauxite sector are conducted, and a "special" market where all other transactions are conducted at a depreciated rate. In August 1977, payments for imports of crude petro- leum were transferred from the "basic" to the "special" market. The rate applying in the "special" market was depreciated fu r ther in October 1977 and January 1978. On the latter occasion, the "basic" rate was also depreciated. As part of a stabilization program adopted in May 1978, Jamaica abolished its dual exchange rate system. In a reform of its ex- change system in March 1978, Nepal abolished the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme and intro- duced a dual exchange rate system under which most export and import transactions, other than those with India, were to be effected at the depreciated exchange rate. In November, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) announced that, with effect from December 1, 1977, exchange transactions relating to trade in diamonds, which previously had been con- ducted through the official exchange market, would be effected through the financial market. In Ecuador, which has maintained a dual exchange market since 1971, the spread between rates in the official and free exchange markets widened in the first few months of 1977, but subsequently the authorities intervened in the free market in order to reduce the spread. In February 1977, Egypt shifted many imports and exports from the official market to the parallel market. As a result, only imports of seven basic commodities and the noncapital imports of the pe- troleum sector, as well as exports of raw cotton, rice, and petroleum, continued to be transacted at the official rate. At the same time, all current receipts from invisibles except Suez Canal and SUMED pipe- line dues were effected at the parallel rate, as were all current payments for invisibles except for a few 14 payments of the Government. Capital transactions of the public sector, other than those related to non- project loans and deposits from abroad and to the repayment of debts of the Government and of the Central Bailk incurred before 1977, were also moved to the parallel market. In June 1977 the foreign investment law of Egypt was amended so as to estab- lish clearly the rate in the parallel market as the rate for transactions related to direct investment. There were no significant changes in the dual market systems in Paraguay and Uruguay, while exchange rates in the dual markets of Iran and the Syrian Arab Republic remained effectively unified. In July 1977 the Central Bank of Argentina no longer provided exchange guarantees in respect of amortization and interest payments on financial loans, thereby terminating the special rate of $a 140 per U.S. dollar for such transactions. Subsequently, Argentina eliminated its remaining multiple currency practice when the tax on foreign exchange transac- tions was unified at 0.6 per cent. Burma removed the multiple currency practice involved in the opera- tion of the Export Price Equalization Fund. In con- nection with the reform of its exchange system, Israel eliminated all existing multiple currency practices. Italy, which had introduced two measures involving multiple currency practices in 1976, eliminated them in the first half of 1977. The tax on purchases of foreign exchange for most current transactions, which the Italian authorities introduced in October 1976 at the level of 7 per cent and reduced to 3.5 per cent at the end of 1976, was from January 3, 1977 reduced at weekly intervals in steps of Vi of a percentage point until the elimination of the tax on February 18, 1977. The 90-day noninterest-bearing deposit re- quirement on purchases of foreign exchange and on the placement of credits of any kind to nonresident lira accounts, which had been in effect with some adaptations since May 1976, was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent on January 15, 1977. It was fur ther reduced to 10 per cent on February 28, 1977, and was abolished on April 15, 1977. The deposit requirement of 25 per cent or 50 per cent on most outward transfers of capital remained in effect. Among countries which modified their multiple ex- change rate systems, Brazil increased substantially the exchange taxes on proceeds from coffee exports but lowered them drastically in December 1977 after world coffee prices had fallen. In February 1977 an exchange tax was applied to exports of soybeans and soybean products but it was suspended in August. In January 1977, Colombia modified the rates of the tax credit certificates for a large number of industrial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES and agricultural export items. A fu r th er modification of these rates became effective in January 1978. The imposition of two deposit requirements for foreign exchange payments and a discount on the sale, under certain circumstances, of exchange certificates which had been issued in exchange for the surrender of ex- change proceeds, gave rise to new effective exchange rates in Colombia. In the Dominican Republic, the tolerated free exchange market was increased in scope through the switching of a large number of import payments to that marke t. New multiple cur- rency practices arose in Ghana, with the introduction of a tax on the purchase of exchange for travel, and in Western Samoa, through the introduction of an exchange profit levy on gross sales of foreign ex- change. Early in 1978, Grenada increased the tax on most purchases of foreign exchange from 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent. In Indonesia, the introduction with effect from January 1, 1977 of an advance import deposit requirement for specified imports, a financial guarantee amoun t ing to 100 per cent of the value of these imports, and the requ irement of ad- vance payment of import duties gave rise to a new multiple currency practice. The Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic announced the application of a pre- m ium on certain sales of foreign exchange, but th is practice was terminated in May 1978. In the United Kingdom, some regulations concern- ing the investment currency market were modified with effect from January 1, 1978 in line with the United Kingdom's undertakings under the terms of its accession to the EEC. The requirement to con- vert 25 per cent of the net proceeds of sale of a hold- ing of investment currency or foreign currency securi- ties through the official foreign exchange market was abolished. Foreign currency loans taken up to pur- chase securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Com- munity, and the European Atomic Energy Commu- nity may now be repaid with official exchange over a five-year period; previously, such loans had been re- payable only out of the proceeds realized from the sale of foreign currency securities so acquired or, in the event of a shortfall, with investment currency. Furthermore, the limit of official foreign exchange made available for certain investment projects was raised where the investment was to be in another EEC country. The rules for financing such invest- ments, which allow for the use of investment cur- rency, were otherwise unchanged. In 1977, the effec- tive premium in the investment currency market remained at levels somewhat lower than those of the previous year. In South Africa the discount in the market for freely negotiable securities rand over 1977 averaged about 31 per cent. 5. Bilateral Payments Arrangements There was fu r ther progress during the period under review in the elimination of bilateral payments ar- rangements maintained by member countries with other Fund members and with nonmember countries, although the number of arrangements terminated was appreciably less than that registered in the previous two years. Five arrangements between member coun- tries were terminated; these were the arrangements maintained by Israel with Brazil and Portugal, those ma in ta ined by Yugoslavia with Brazil and Greece, and the agreement between Egypt and Viet Nam. However, an additional arrangement, that between Algeria and Guinea-Bissau, was added to the list of such agreements between members when the latter country became a Fund member in early 1977. Four agreements between members and nonmembers were also eliminated during the period under review. Cyprus terminated its agreements with the German Democratic Republic and the U.S.S.R., while Greece terminated its arrangement with the U.S.S.R., and India its arrangement with Hungary. A new agree- ment was concluded between Jordan and Poland. About 47 operative bilateral payments arrange- ments are still maintained between members. The Fund has found that five of the arrangements cur- rently operative involve bilateral payments features for one party only, while seven agreements are re- garded as inoperative. The number of bilateral pay- ments arrangements between members and non- members has fallen to about 144. The number of arrangements between members is now some 6 per cent less than the level recorded at the end of 1970, while arrangements between members and nonmem- bers were reduced over the same period by almost 30 per cent. Over this period, Fund membership rose by close to 14 per cent. 6. Capital Flows Measures bearing on capital movements during the period under review represented in general the con- tinuation of policies already in place during the pre- ceding period. Policies on capital flows in the indus- trial countries were related partly to developments in foreign exchange markets, and were aimed at avert- ing unwanted capital flows and absorbing bank liquidity generated by foreign exchange market inter- ventions of the respective central banks. As the main conduit of fund s, the banking system was the primary focus of policy changes, although there were also 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS numerous measures affec t ing capital flows through nonbanks. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Deutsche Bundesbank in September 1977 invited commercial banks in Germany to o f fer the proceeds from deutsche mark-denominated foreign bonds floated by for- eign issuers to the Deutsche Bundesbank for conver- sion into another currency. Also in September, a cash deposit requirement on borrowings by residents from nonresidents, which was still in force for resi- dents who had not complied with the requirement until September 1974, was completely abolished. Following a period of sustained upward pressure on the deutsche mark, the authorities of the Federal Re- public of Germany increased, with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1978, the minimum reserve requirement on banks' foreign liabilities from 12.75 per cent to 20 per cent for sight deposits, f rom 8.95 per cent to 15 per cent for time deposits, and f rom 5.65 per cent to 10 per cent for savings deposits. Increases in the banks' foreign liabilities beyond the average level for the quarter ended in mid-December 1977 were made subject to a new reserve requ irement of 80 per cent. Also largely reflecting exchange ma rket develop- ments, Switzerland introduced a series of measures aimed at restraining capital inflows, especially through the banks. The framework for exercising surveillance on capital movements was reinforced, notably by strengthening and extending the gentleman's agree- ment between the Swiss National Bank and the Swiss Bankers' Association. A new agreement introduced in July 1977 specified the general terms and condi- tions for the acceptance of foreign funds by the banks, including the application of the banking secrecy law. Furthermore, the Swiss authorities ex- tended, to the end of June 1978, the March 1975 agreement on the banks' daily reporting to the Swiss National Bank of all spot and forward foreign ex- change transactions exceeding the equivalent of US$5 million. Switzerland also extended until mid- July 1978, a June 1976 agreement with the banks, under which they were required to instruct their for- eign affiliates to refrain from speculative transactions against the Swiss f ranc; the banks are required under the same agreement to refrain from depositing funds out of Switzerland into Euro-Swiss f ranc accounts or in the form of direct placements with their branches or subsidiaries abroad. Following continued upward pressure on the Swiss franc, Switzerland introduced a number of new measures early in 1978 aimed at moderating the inflow of foreign funds. In February 1978, the full exemption granted under the 10 per 16 cent quarterly negative interest rate to balances of nonresident Swiss f ranc deposits outstanding at the end of October 1974 was reduced to 80 per cent of such balances; the reduction did not, however, apply to balances under Sw F 1 million, but balances ex- ceeding Sw F 5 million henceforth became subject to the charge, irrespective of the reference date. These measures, which came into effect in April 1978, were intended to encourage an unwinding of Swiss franc deposits by nonresidents. In March 1978, the Swiss National Bank withdrew the exemption previously granted to foreign monetary authorities in respect of the negative interest charge on nonresident deposits of Swiss francs. In Japan, several steps were taken to facilitate out- ward capital movements through the banking system early in 1977; subsequently, in response to pressures on the exchange rate, measures were adopted to re- duce capital inflows. In July 1977 Japanese foreign exchange banks were permitted to extend medium- term and long-term loans in foreign currencies more freely, based in principle on medium-term and long- term fund ings; the control on short-term bank loans to nonresidents was simultaneously abolished. On the other hand, capital control measures were tight- ened in Japan in some respects in order to counter speculative capital inflows. An incremental reserve requirement of 50 per cent on nonresident free yen deposits was introduced in November 1977 in an e f fo rt to fu r ther restrain capital inflows; in mid-March 1978 the reserve requirement was raised to 100 per cent. In June 1977, the Bank of Japan introduced a reserve requirement of 0.25 per cent on foreign ex- change banks' foreign currency liabilities, including those in the form of residents' foreign currency de- posits; in the same month, restrictions were abolished on foreign currency deposits by residents and non- residents. In November 1977, the Japanese authori- ties introduced a system of periodic inspection of the books of overseas branches of Japanese banks as well as local branches of large foreign banks. In the United States, new and detailed reporting requirements on the foreign operations of U.S. banks were announced in October 1977, to become effec- tive at the end of 1978. In December 1977, the reserve requirement on loans by foreign branches of U.S. banks to U.S. residents (under Regulation M) was reduced from 4 per cent to 1 per cent. In addi- tion, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency in Janu- ary 1978 announced his intention to clarify the regu- lation limiting a U.S. bank's loans to a single bor- rower to no more than 10 per cent of the bank's capital; for the purposes of this regulation, individual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES foreign governments and their agencies would be counted as one entity, unless evidence could be fu r- nished by the bank showing that ( 1) the borrower has adequate resources or income of its own to serv- ice the debt, and (2) the loan proceeds would be used by the borrower in its own business and for the purposes stated in the loan agreement. Among other industrial countries which introduced new measures on capital flows through the banks, Italy in mid-April 1977 abolished the deposit require- ment introduced in May 1976 on purchases of foreign exchange. Beginning in October 1977, some banks, insurance companies, and merchan ts in the Un i ted Kingdom were permitted to re ta in larger balances in foreign currencies. In other European countries, Ireland announced that 50 per cent of all net capital inflows to the banks a f ter May 18, 1977, except those for financing ma jor industrial products, should be deposited with the Central Bank. In March 1977 Turkey authorized banks to open convertible lira accounts in favor of individuals or legal entities domi- ciled in Turkey and increased the permissible interest rate markup on convertible lira deposits. With respect to portfolio investments, new policy measures introduced in the industrial countries during the review period included the au thor iza t ion granted in Denmark for residents to purchase securities issued by European and other international ins t i tu t ions of which Denmark is a member. In the Federal Republic of Germany, it was announced in December 1977 that the Bundesbank would no longer approve the acqui- sition by nonresidents of domestic securities with an outstanding ma tur i ty of two to four years. Japan took several steps du r ing the review period to liberal- ize controls on outward capital movements. They included ( 1) the abolition in mid-1977 of the restric- tions on purchases by residents of foreign securities of less than one year's ma tu r i ty; (2) the additional application of income tax exemption to interest on y e n - d e n om i n a t e d, g o v e r nm e n t - g u a r a n t e ed bonds issued by foreign borrowers or ce r ta in in te rna t ional institutions designated by the M in is ter of Finance, to the extent tha t, together with other small savings, the principal per person does not exceed a total of ¥ 3 million; (3) favorable trea tment for placements of loan instruments by fo re ign borrowers in Japan; and (4) the approval, for the first time, of the issuance of yen-denominated bonds in the Eurobond ma rke t. Commencing November 1977 Japan adopted several measures aimed at limiting inward por tfo l io capital. In that mon th, public sales of short-term t reasu ry bills were suspended. Subsequently, as part of meas- ures introduced in mid-March 1978 to counter speculative inflows, Japan tightened restrictions on nonresident purchases of yen-denominated securities with ma tur i t ies not exceeding 61 months; yen- denominated bonds issued by overseas borrowers were, however, exempted f rom the new regulations. The Netherlands, in September 1977, while retaining existing restrictions in substance, considerably simpli- fied their form. The new regulations aim at greater clarity, and a number of transactions are no longer subject to permission but to reporting obligations only. In Switzerland, a number of steps were taken dur ing the period under review to ease nonresidents' access to the domestic capital market, including a relaxation of the conditions governing public bond issues and the granting of general authorization for public bond issues in individual amounts not exceed- ing Sw F 10 million; new bond issues by nonresidents were, however, made subject to a m in imum resident participation ratio of 65 per cent. In addition, the Swiss National Bank in November 1977 notified the banks not to allow advance repayment of medium- term private placements by nonresidents. In the United Kingdom, it was announced in December 1977 that foreign currency loans in connection with purchases of certain foreign securities could be repaid with official exchange over a five-year period. In the area of controls on foreign direct investment, France in Ju ly 1977 announced an increase, from F 2 million to F 3 million, in the official ceiling on permissible foreign investments which could be made w i thout prior authorization when such investments were in the form of loans or guarantees to French subsidiaries of foreign enterprises. Canada relaxed regulations on inward foreign investments in March 1977 by exempting f rom prior review requirements, the establishment of assembly or manu fac tu r ing operations by foreign importers and distributors of proprietary products in Canada; review procedures were simplified for takeovers involving firms with assets of less than Can$2 million and with fewer than 100 employees. In Switzerland, the authorities ex- tended un t il the end of March 1978, the 1976 gentle- man's agreement between major foreign firms in Switzerland and the Swiss National Bank, under which the firms were required to file periodic reports to the Bank indicating their "repatriation potential" w i th respect to corporate earnings and capital. In the United Kingdom, the authorities obtained in Decem- ber 1977 from the Commission of the EEC, an authorization under Article 108 of the EEC Treaty to maintain certain restrictions on capital movements, including direct investments in other member coun- tries. However, with effect from J anu a ry 1978, and 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS following the marked improvement in its external payments position, the United Kingdom took a num- ber of steps to liberalize capital outflows, notably by increasing the limit of official exchange made avail- able for certain categories of direct foreign invest- ments in other EEC countries, and by abolishing the 25 per cent surrender requirement on transactions in investment securities. Among other European countries, Spain in January 1977 substantially eased its regulations on inward foreign investments. With respect to other forms of capital flows, changes in the industrial countries during the period reviewed included an extension by the United Kingdom of their existing powers to control the rais- ing of sterling finance by resident companies con- trolled by nonresidents. However, most categories of such companies were permitted to raise sterling finance without limit. In Norway, the ceiling on gov- ernment guarantees for investment credits to develop- ing countries was doubled in February 1977. Among other countries, Australia took steps in January 1977 to prohibit nonresidents' market pur- chases of existing fixed-interest securities, as well as market purchases of, or subscriptions to, government securities. In addition, Australia introduced a require- ment in respect of all overseas borrowings of two years or more, for purposes other than capital invest- ment, that the borrower must make a noninterest- bearing deposit with the Reserve Bank of Australia amounting to 25 per cent of loan value, for a retention period of up to three years; this requirement was rescinded in July 1977. South Africa took a number of steps to tighten controls on nonbank outward capital movements. Argentina granted authorization in June 1977 for purchases of foreign exchange out of nonresident accounts, up to a maximum of US$1,000, w i thout a written declaration of the purpose of the purchase. In January 1977, Bangladesh extended eligibility for the maintenance of convertible accounts in domestic currency with authorized local banks to foreign oil companies engaged in domestic oil exploration, for- eign contractors and consultants working on specific projects, and resident foreign nationals. In January 1977, Brazil increased the limits on the banks' for- eign exchange positions. In March 1977, Honduras suspended all new foreign borrowings by the banking system with a maturity of less than two years; bank guarantees for medium-term and long-term foreign loans were also restricted to those for importation of agricultural and industrial machinery and for public work programs. In October 1977, Israel liberalized the existing system of domestic accounts in foreign 18 currency. Reflecting the improvement in its balance of payments, Korea announced in November 1977 that certain types of foreign exchange loans to local companies by foreign bank branches in Korea would no longer be permitted; steps had also been taken in August of the same year to reduce the maximum permissible interest rates on foreign currency loans, foreign currency time deposits, and swap margins of foreign bank branches in Korea. Lebanon issued a new bank licensing law after the expiration of a ten- year moratorium on new banks, and in April 1977 legislated to establish a free zone banking facility. Among other developing countries which intro- duced new measures affecting capital flows through banks, Mexico in August 1977 raised the reserve requirement on U.S. dollar-denominated savings deposits from 30 per cent to 75 per cent. In Oman, the Central Bank announced in April 1977 that all locally incorporated banks must have at least 50 per cent Omani shareholding. In furtherance of the objective of developing regional financial centers, the Philippines in April 1977 granted authorization to 11 foreign banks to operate offshore banking units; authorization was simultaneously granted, under an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme, for speci- fied domestic and foreign bank branches to borrow f u n ds in the international market for onlending to domestic borrowers. As a domestic liquidity measure, Saudi Arabia, at the beginning of July 1977, raised from 1 per cent to 5 per cent the reserve requirement on deposits in foreign currency. In a move to pro- mote increased availability of foreign exchange funds through the domestic bank ing system, Sudan in March 1977 granted permission for authorized deal- ers to open deposit accounts in freely usable curren- cies, for specified categories of residents, nonresi- dents, and transactions. The Yemen Arab Republic in January 1977 required banks to obtain Central Bank approval before contracting or guaranteeing foreign loans to residents and nonresidents. In the area of policies on direct foreign invest- ments, Bahrain in October 1977 introduced new regulations to exempt from certain requirements of the internal corporate law domestically established firms whose businesses are substantially outside the country. Chile removed the limitations on repatria- tion of profits on inward foreign investment, and allowed authorized remittances of foreign investors to be maintained in the form of domestic deposits; authorization was also granted for repatriation of capital that had been invested for at least three years. The Republic of China revised extensively its for- eign investment incentives; the measures included ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS (1) an increase, from 15 per cent to 20 per cent of investment values, in the permissible margin of capi- tal repatriation within two years of completion of a project; (2) elimination of the 80 per cent ceiling on a foreign investor's share in jo int technical ven- tures; and (3) an increase by one to three years in the five-year tax holiday period for investments in technology-oriented industries. In January 1977, Colombia raised from 14 per cent to 20 per cent of investment, the maximum rate of profits which could be transferred by foreign investors f rom outside the Andean Pact region; the automatically reinvestible proportion of foreign firms' profits was also increased from 5 per cent to 7 per cent, and foreign-owned companies were made eligible for domestic loans not exceeding three years in maturity. In India, changes in the investment regulations were aimed at facilitat- ing investments by nonresident Ind ians and persons of Indian origin. Lebanon established an investment insurance facility in March 1977, which included scope for insuring foreign as well as domestic invest- ments against noncivilian risks. Among other developing countries, Nigeria in January 1977 shifted several specified industries into the category requiring higher minimal equity partici- pation by Nigerians. In a similar move, Saudi Arabia announced in January 1977 that at least 60 per cent of ownership of foreign banks must be held by Saudi Arabian nationals. In April 1977, Viet Nam intro- duced a new law on foreign investment incentives. Among the developing countries which introduced new measures on direct foreign borrowing during the review period, Argentina in May 1977 made subject to prior approval by the Central Bank all loans from a foreign company to a domestic subsidiary. Also, the minimum permissible maturity for foreign currency loans was raised in August 1977 f rom six months to one year, and in November 1977 f rom one to two years. Brazil raised the ceilings on foreign credits with treasury guarantee. In November, proceeds of all foreign loans entering Brazil through the end of 1977 were required to be deposited with the Central Bank for a period of about six weeks. Colombia in April 1977 raised by 20 per cent the existing US$1 billion ceiling on foreign loans incurred or guaranteed by the public sector for the purpose of development financing. In October 1977 the Republic of China prohibited short-term foreign borrowing for financing working capital requirements in domestic currency. The official ceiling on loans and advances by foreign- owned banks was liberalized in Pakistan in January 1977, while the Philippines introduced regulations to permit foreign-owned companies to raise loans in domestic currency, provided certain specified debt- equity ratios were met. In Uruguay, the interest paid on foreign currency deposit requirements in respect of foreign loans was reduced in August 1977 from 2 percentage points above LIBOR to the LIBOR rate; at the beginning of December 1977, it was announced that no interest payments would be made on addi- tions to foreign currency deposit requirements, and that the LIBOR rate would apply to the existing stock of such deposits as of the end of November 1977. 7. Gold Movements Prior to the expiration at the end of Janua ry 1978 of the transitional arrangement on gold among the Group of Ten countries and with Switzerland and Portugal, these countries reviewed the arrangement and informed the Fund of their decision not to ex- tend it, in view of the expected entry into force of the Second Amendment to the Fund's Articles of Agreement. A number of countries changed existing regula- tions governing external and domestic trade in gold. Argentina lifted the ban on sales of gold coins to the public, but all gold sales remained subject to formal reporting to the Central Bank. Iran introduced a tax of 5 per cent on gold imports. In a move sub- stantially liberalizing transactions in gold, Japan in January 1978 removed restrictions on foreign trade in gold not exceeding the equivalent of ¥ 3 million, and subjected transactions beyond that amount to only formal reporting to a foreign exchange bank in the case of gold imports, and to the customs where gold exports were involved. In January 1978, Pakistan banned both domestic and external trade in gold bullion by the banks. In the United Kingdom, it was announced that the regulations on gold coins and medals, which had been applied to all such items manufactured after 1837, would henceforth cease to apply for the most part to those manufactured between 1838 and 1937. The United States introduced a new law making gold clause contracts, as well as multi- currency contracts, enforceable in U.S. courts. In Yugoslavia, a number of regulations were introduced on external trade in commemorative gold coins. III. Regional Arrangements There were further important steps toward regional economic integration during the period under review, especially in Europe. Two countries applied for membership of the EEC and four additional ACP countries13 became signatories to the Lome Con- vention. On the other hand, strains appeared in 13 The ACP countries consist of certain developing coun- tries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region; 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in some other integration arrangemen ts existing regions. The transition period for the customs un ion laid down by the Act concerning the accession of the United Kingdom, Denma rk, and Ireland to the EEC ended on June 30, 1977 when the three coun tr ies removed the rema in ing customs duties on intra-EEC trade and implemented the last elements in the harmonization of the common customs t a r i f f. The transitional period in the agr icu l tural sphere ended on Janua ry 1, 1978. The fifth and last stage in the general timetable for the removal of industrial t a r i f fs under f ree trade agreements between the EEC and the EFTA coun- tries was reached on Ju ly 1, 1977. Import du t ies on all goods, except certain "sensitive" indus t r ial prod- ucts which had already been reduced to 20 per cent of the ir in i t ial level, were abolished. In the case of "sensitive" products, the agreements prov ided for fu r ther reductions of duties on J a n u a ry 1, 1977 and on July 1, 1977; some of these products, no tab ly steel and pulp and paper, rema ined subject to ta r i ff ceilings. For products covered by EFTA but not by f ree t rade agreements, ma in ly processed ag r icu l tu ral goods, the duties —which had been re in t roduced f rom the beg inn ing of 1974 in t rade among the EFTA coun tr ies and Denma rk and the Un i ted K ingdom— were raised on July 1, 1977 f rom 80 per cent to 100 per cent of the most-favored-nation rates. Negotiations on Greece's membersh ip in the Euro- pean Commun i ty continued in 1977. On Janua ry 13, 1977 negotiations were concluded on a new financial protocol w i th in the context of Greece's cu r rent asso- ciation with the Commun i ty. The protocol, wh ich provides for budgetary assistance to Greece of Euro- pean un i ts of account (EUA) 55 m i l l i o n14 and for lending by the European Inves tment Bank (E IB) of EUA 225 million, is to exp ire on October 31, 1981. In preparation for EEC membership, Greece decided to replace its clearing a r rangemen ts w i th certain th i rd the o r ig inal ACP coun tr ies were Bahamas, Barbados, Ben in, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, C e n t r al A f r i c an Emp i re, Chad, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Equ a to r i al G u i n e a, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Ghana, G renada, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, G u y a n a, Ivo ry Coast, Jama ica, K eny a, Lesotho, L ibe r ia, Madagascar, M a l aw i, M a l i, M au r i- tan ia, Mau r i t iu s, N iger, N ig e r i a, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaz i land, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Vo l ta, Western Samoa, Za ire, and Zamb ia. The Comoros, Seychelles, and Su r iname jo ined d u r i ng 1976. 14 The va lue of the un it of account is ca lcu la ted d a i ly on the basis of a basket of the currenc ies of the membe rs of the EEC. 20 countries by agreements, including provisions for trade without restrictions, and to limit their period of duration to 1979 so as to facilitate their eventual replacement by EEC trade agreements. On July 25, 1977, the EEC and Spain exchanged letters to inform each other of the trade arrangements to be applied in reciprocal relations du r ing the second half of 1977. The exchange of letters specified the terms for the extension of the EEC-Spain agreements of 1970 to the enlarged EEC. In early Janua ry 1978, the EEC and Portugal extended un t il the end of 1978 the in ter im commercial agreement of September 20, 1976, while awa i t ing pa r l iamen ta ry ratification and the en try into force of the additional protocol of the same date. On March 8, 1977 and July 8, 1977, respectively, Portugal and Spain officially applied for membership in the EEC. In the context of the EEC's overall Mediterranean approach, preferen t ial trade and cooperation agree- men ts were signed with Egypt, Jordan, and the Syrian A rab Republic on Janua ry 18, 1977 and with Lebanon on May 3, 1977. The agreements provide for economic and technical assistance of EUA 300 m i l l ion in total for these countries in the period to October 31, 1981. The agreements will come into force when ra t if ied and are of indef in i te duration. However, the trade provisions became effective on Ju ly 1, 1977 under in ter im arrangemen ts. From that da te, imports f rom these countries, except for prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy, enter the Commun i ty du ty f ree. Temporary ceilings apply to petroleum products, cotton ya rn, certain cotton fabr ics, phosphate fer t i l izers, and a lum inum un t il the end of 1979. Tariff concessions for agri- cu l tural exports to the EEC varied f rom 40 per cent to 80 per cent. EEC exports to these countries were given most-favored-nation t rea tmen t. On February 8, 1977 additional and financial protocols were signed w i th Israel to supplement the agreement on trade and commercial cooperation which came into force on July 1, 1976. The enlargement of the cooperation aspect, and the provision of EUA 30 million of financial assistance for the period un t il October 31, 1981, made the EEC-Israel agreement similar to those concluded with the Maghreb 15 and Mashrak ]0 countries. On July 1, 1977, the third and last stage of the elimination of EEC ta r i f fs in respect of imports of indus t r ial products f rom Israel became effective. Also under the EEC's overall Mediterranean ap- proach, negotiations between the EEC and Cyprus 15 A lge r ia, Morocco, and Tun is ia. 16 Egyp t, Jo rdan, Lebanon, and Sy r ian A r ab Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS were concluded, which extended until the end of 1979 the trade arrangements which were due to expire on June 30, 1977, and also extended the EEC-Cyprus association to the fields of economic and financial cooperation. The additional and finan- cial protocols were signed on September 15, 1977. The financial protocol provides for financial assistance of EUA 30 million over a five-year period. A similar agreement with Malta was initialed on Ju ly 15, 1977 extending the first phase of the EEC-Malta agreement until the end of 1980. The third financial protocol with Turkey was signed on May 12, 1977. The protocol provides for EUA 310 million of finan- cial assistance to be committed to Turkey du r ing the period until October 31, 1981. On July 1, 1977 the EEC preferential scheme for agricultural imports from Turkey was improved for certain products. In the context of EEC relations w i th the ACP countries under the Lome Convention, the treaties for the accession to the Convention of Cape Verde, Papua New Guinea, and Sao Tome and Principe were signed on March 28, 1977. This brought the number of ACP signatory countries under the Lome Convention to 52. The trade arrangements of the Convention came into effect for the three new signa- tories on May 1, 1977, prior to the ratification of the treaties of accession. In Ju ly 1977, the European Council of Ministers favorably noted the request of Djibouti, a former overseas te r r i to ry, for membersh ip to the Convention and decided to m a in t a in for Djibouti, on a temporary basis, the status of an asso- ciated country or territory. The scheme of the Lome Convention to stabilize the export earn ings of ACP countries (STABEX) f rom specified commod i t ies was modified in 1977 to expand the scheme's product coverage and, for some ACP coun tr ies, the coverage as to destination. In addition, six countries (Cape Verde, the Comoros, Lesotho, Seychelles, Tonga, and Western Samoa) were added to the group of countries for which the scheme's coverage ex tends to all exports, irrespective of des t ina t ion. On Janua ry 1, 1977 new quotas came into effect for imports by EEC countries f rom state t rad ing countries. The quotas covered v i r t u a l ly the same range of products as the 1976 quotas, and were increased by 5 per cent for those expressed in terms of value and by 3 per cent for those expressed in terms of volume. On Janua ry 1, 1977 Iceland reduced duties on imports from other members of the EFTA f rom 40 per cent to 30 per cent. On the same da te, Portugal reduced duties on a number of imports from other EFTA countries f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent, and Switzerland abolished duties for EFTA countries on a number of agricultural imports. The EFTA Industrial Development Fund for Portugal came into force on February 1, 1977. The Development Fund aims at fu r th e r ing productive investments, especially the re- construction or creation of small and medium-sized enterprises. In June and September 1977, multi- lateral negotiations with Spain took place in Geneva on reducing barriers to mu tual trade; it was decided to liberalize trade in industrial goods between Spain and EFTA countries to the same extent as between Spain and the EEC. Bilateral talks were also initiated be- tween Spain and some EFTA countries on trade in agricultural products. The harmonization of excise duties among the Benelux countries was postponed from July 1, 1977 to Janua ry 1, 1978. Legislation provides for a gradual unification by 1984 of the taxes on beer, wine, nonalcoholic beverages, sugar, tobacco, ciga- rettes, and petroleum products. France became a member of the A f r ican Develop- ment Fund (FAD) 17 in December 1977. Its initial contribution is F 50 million. In July 1977, Cape Verde was admitted to the Economic Community of West Afr ican States (EcowAs) .18 A meeting of finance ministers of ECOWAS member countries in Lome on Ju ly 26-28, 1977 ratified the establishment of a community fund, which is intended to finance development projects and compensate members for revenue losses suffered as ta r i ff barriers are reduced; the fund 's capital was fixed at US$500 million. Its constituent assembly convened in Bamako on De- cember 6, 1977. Guinea was admitted to member- ship of the West Afr ican Clearing House (WACH) 1!) at a meeting of the Committee of the Clearing House held in Monrovia, on May 9 —10, 1977. At a meeting of the heads of state of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty (CEAO) 20 in Ab id jan on June 8, 1977 it was decided to establish a fund of US$20 million to aid landlocked members of the Community, and a special allocation was authorized to the CEAO secre- ta r iat to finance commun i ty projects. The fund was forma l ly established on December 7, 1977. 17 B e l g i um, B raz i l, C an ad a, D e nm a r k, F i n l a n d, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Italy, Japan, Kuwa i t, Ne ther lands, No rway, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United K ingdom, Un i ted States, and Yugos lav ia. 38 Ben in, Cape Verde, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guinea, Gu inea-B issau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, N i g e r i a, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. w Ben in, The Gamb ia, G h a n a, Gu in e a, Ivory Coast, L iber ia, Ma l i, N iger, N ige r ia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 20 Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS In May 1977, the Governmen ts of France and Mali concluded a new mone ta ry agreement in ad- vance of Mali's even tual membersh ip in the West Afr ican Monetary Union (UMOA ) .21 The agree- ment provided, in ter alia, for the in troduc t ion in Mali of b ank ing legislation analogous to th at preva i l ing in member states of the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (BCEAO ) ,22 and set the financial charges for Mali's debtor position in the Operations Account with the French Treasury. On February 10, 1977, at a s umm it mee t ing of the Common Organization of A f r i c an and Mau r i t ian States (OCAM) 2:>> agreement was reached on the establishment of a cooperation and gua ran tee f u n d, with headquar ters in Cotonou, B en in, to encourage the easier financing of development projects in th e ir countries. The members also agreed forma l ly to de- clare the OCAM sugar agreement void. An extraor- d ina ry conference of heads of state of the OCAM took place in Dakar on Apr il 22, 1977 at wh ich it was agreed that the OCAM Gua ran tee and Solidarity Fund should amount to CFAF 5,000 m i l l ion, wh ich would be contributed by member states in accord- ance with their relative financial positions. In March 1978, Seychelles announced its w i thd rawal f rom the OCAM, reduc ing the membership to n ine countries. On October 1, 1977, the member coun tr ies of the Mano R iver Union 24 adopted a customs t a r i ff cover- ing all but a few imports, with ta r i ff rates generally ad jus ted upwa rd. In add i t ion, protocols were signed regarding, inter alia, the ha rmon iza t ion of excise legislation, in su rance, and transpor t. In November 1977, the member states of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) 2:> established the Great Lakes S ta tes De- velopment Bank to provide f inanc ing for the p r io r i ty projects involving development of the Ruz izi R iver Valley and fisheries on Lake Tangany ika, and exploi- ta t ion of Lake K ivu 's me thane gas deposits. An agreement establishing the O rgan iza t ion for the Management and Development of the Kagera R iver Basin (KRBDO) 2(; was signed on Augu st 24, 1977 by the presidents of the member countries. The p r ime objective of the Organ iza t ion is to conserve and regulate the Kagera wa ters and augment the ir 21 Ben in, Ivo ry Coast, N i g e r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 22 Ben in, Ivory Coast, N i g e r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 28 Benin, Cen tral A f r ican Emp ire, Ivory Coast, M au r i t iu s, N ige r, Rw and a, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, and Upper Volta. 24 Liberia and Sierra Leone. 2r» B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and Za i re. 20 B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and T an z an i a. 22 flow in to Lake Victoria, thus helping to develop irri- gation, electric power, and navigation projects. At a summ it meeting held in Libreville in Decem- ber 1977, the Heads of State of the Central African Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC) 27 coun- tr ies agreed to in tens i fy economic in tegra t ion through the establishment of a common income tax, harmoni- zation of legislation regarding movement of persons, indus tr ia l iza t ion, and customs procedures, and ad- m in is t ra t ion of the waterways between Bangui (Cen- tral A f r ican Emp ire) and Brazzaville ( the People's Republic of the Congo) under a community arrange- ment. As a resu lt of political and f inanc ial strains among its member countries, the East African Community (EAC) 2H ceased to be operational in 1977. These s tra ins had become especially evident in the increas- ing financial problems of Community-wide enterprises in the fields of airlines, railways, harbors, and tele- commun ica t ions. On Ju ly 2, 1977, the Vice-Presi- den ts of Tanzan ia and Uganda agreed that their Gove rnmen ts would con t inue to provide f u n ds until September 30, 1977 for general commun i ty services, including con t inu ing capital projects, in their coun- tries and for the headquar ters in Arusha. An A f r ican Re insurance Corporation (ARC) 29 was established on Janua ry 31, 1977 under the auspices of the A f r ican Development Bank (ADB ). Membership is open to all members of the Organiza- tion of A f r ican Un i ty (OAU ). The Corporation had its inaugural meeting in Ab id jan on March 30- April 2, 1977 and was to s tart operations on Janu- ary 1, 1978. The ARC has an authorized capital of US$15 million. The agreement es tab l ish ing the Arab Monetary Fund (AMF) 30 entered into force on February 2, 1977, a f t er it was ra t if ied by countries whose total capital subscription was in excess of 55 per cent of the authorized capital. The first meeting of the Board of Governors was held in Abu Dhabi on April 19, 1977. By th is t ime, members had paid the statutory 25 per cent of the ir share in the AMF's capital, which 27 Cameroon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Emp ire, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. 28 Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Ug and a. 29 A lge r ia, Ben in, Cen tral A f r ican Empire, Egyp t, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gamb ia, G h a n a, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, Libyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, N ige r, N ige r ia, Sierra Leone, Soma l ia, Swaz i land, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tun is ia, and Zaire. 80 A lger ia, B a h r a i n, Egypt, Iraq, Jo rdan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, L ibyan A r ab Jamah i r iya, Mau r i tan ia, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qa tar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Tun is ia, United A rab Emirates, Yemen A rab Re- pub l ic, and People's Democra t ic Repub l ic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS :i:5 initially amounts to Arab dinars 250 million/51 The AMF's aims are to promote trade and capital move- ments between member states, assist member states in eliminating payments and trade restrictions, stabi- lize exchange rates between Arab currencies, and eventually establish a unified Arab currency. The AMF's operations regarding the provision of balance of payments financing to its member countries are to be broadly similar to those of the IMF. During the period under review five countries became members of the A rab Common Ma rket (ACM).32 They were Sudan (May 1977 ), Mau r i- tania, Somalia, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (August 1977 ), and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (September 1977 ). On August 12, 1977, a new common customs barrier was agreed upon for the ACM countries, to come into force in 1978. On March 12, 1977 the fore ign m in is ters of the Regional Cooperation for Development (RCD) signed the Treaty of Izmir which provided for the implementation of the agreements reached by the heads of state and government in April 1976 on economic, trade, cultural, and industrial cooperation. Member countries of the Latin American Free (LAFTA) 84 adopted several Trade Association agreements to reduce existing barriers to mu tual trade. In February 1977, a reciprocal credit agree- ment for US$1 million with a margin of 20 per cent was signed between Ecuador and Uruguay under the provision of the LAFTA Multilateral Compensation and Reciprocal Credit Mechanism (LA FTAC u ) . *5 At a session of the Andean Pac t: ui in Lima on February 14-17, 1977, decisions were adopted on modified preferential margins for Bolivia and Ecua- dor, a code of conduct for social security, the harmo- nization of national accounts, a subregional system of statistical information, a code of conduct for labor migration, and the codification of the Cartagena Agreement. In April 1977, a special program of support for Bolivia was agreed upon. The program is aimed at improving the competitiveness of Bolivian industry, the fostering of industrial projects, promot- ing exports, and training personnel. On August 12, 1977 a protocol formalizing Chile's w i thd rawal f rom 31 The A rab d inar is a un it of account equ iva lent to SDR 3.0. 32 Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, M au r i- tan ia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian A rab Repub l ic, Yemen A r ab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 33 Iran, f akistan, and Turkey. 84 Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela. 35 LAFTA countries and the Dom in ican Repub l ic. the Andean Development Corporation (CAP) was signed in Bogota and the CAP repurchased Chile's shares in the organization. The Administrative Com- mittee of the Andean Social Security Agreement had its first meeting on August 22, 1977; on the same date, a Common Social Security System for the Andean region came into force. An Automotive In- dustry Program was signed in Quito on September 13, 1977; the pact is for a term of 14 years and sets pro- duction allocations for various types of vehicles and parts. In November 1977, the Colombian Congress ratified Law No. 29, authorizing Colombia to be a member of the Andean Reserve Fund; this Fund was established in November 1976 and has as its goals the harmonization of monetary and exchange policies of the members of the Andean Pact. At a meeting of economic m in is ters of the member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) *7 on Janua ry 19-21, 1977, regulations under Article IX of the General Treaty were ap- proved. These provide that member governments will not grant du ty-free t rea tment to imports of goods f rom third countries that are produced in adequate quantities in Central America and which are subject to f r ee trade under Article III of the Treaty. The regulations entered into force on February 11, 1977. Intraregional trade in the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) :i8 declined sharply in 1977. Early in 1977, Dominica, Guyana, and Jamaica im- posed restrictions for balance of payments reasons on imports originating in other member states. In September 1977, Trinidad and Tobago decided to erect a system of selective import controls on goods from those CARICOM members restricting imports or ig ina t ing in Trinidad and Tobago. Such controls, however, have not yet been implemented. The jo int regional aluminum smelter program, agreed upon in 1974 by Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, appears to have been suspended. Trinidad and Tobago is presently pursu ing th is project alone. A food development program, conceived as a joint CARICOM venture, has not made much progress. The River Plate Financial Fund ,™ a jo int develop- ment fund established by the River Plate Basin coun- tries at the end of 1976, began operations following the first meeting of its Board of Governors in Sucre on March 31, 1977. At a conference in Asuncion in 36 Bo l iv ia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 37 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Hondu ras, and N icaragua. :i8 An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, G renada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 39 A rgen t ina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Pa raguay, and U ruguay. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS December 1977, the Governors of the Financial Fund agreed that it should be the policy of this Fund to promote a harmonious development between the member countries by giving preferences to the land- locked members. Upon the initiative of Brazil, eight countries in ter- ested in an Amazon Pact 40 had preparatory meetings in Brasilia on November 28-30, 1977. The delega- tions considered statutes for the Pact which would aim at the common development of the Amazon region. Central Bank governors of Latin American coun- tries decided in Cartagena on September 20, 1977 to create an Inter-American Export Bank, the initial capital of which would be US$300 million. On December 15, 1977, the Bahamas became the forty-first member of the Inter-American Develop- ment Bank. Representatives of 15 international agencies and 30 governments, including 13 Caribbean govern- ments, attended a conference in December 1977 on economic development in the Caribbean and agreed to establish early in 1978 a Caribbean Group for Economic Cooperation. The Group would be com- posed of IBRD member countries in the Caribbean and other member countries and international agen- cies interested in making substantial contributions to the economic development of the area. On January 13, 1977, Burma became the seventh participant in the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) .41 On February 10, at the fifth meeting of the Board of Directors of the Union, it was decided to extend the period of settlement of balances among the partici- pating countries from one month to two months. On January 18, 1977, Singapore agreed with the Philippines and Thailand to a 10 per cent across-the- board tariff cut. In Manila, on February 24, 1977, foreign ministers of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) 42 countries signed an 40 Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, Suri- name, and Venezuela. 41 Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, Iran, Nepa l, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 42 Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thai- land. agreement on preferential trading arrangements. Among other agreements to foster cooperation among member countries, exclusive trade preferences were accorded in 1977 for the products of jo int ASEAN projects. The agreement was ratified on August 1, 1977. At a meeting of ASEAN economic ministers in Singapore on June 27-29, 1977, preferential tariff cuts of between 10 and 30 per cent were agreed on 71 goods traded between ASEAN countries. (Trade in these products amounts to about US$150 million a year or about 2.7 per cent of total intra-ASEAN trade .) Goods qualify for preference if they contain at least 50 per cent local content (40 per cent for Indones ia ). It was decided to implement the cuts not later than January 1, 1978. In April 1977, the member countries agreed on an emergency petroleum sharing agreement to be activated in the event of a petroleum surplus or shortage. In early 1977, the central banks of ASEAN member countries agreed to establish a US$100 million short-term swap arrange- ment to help to bridge temporary liquidity problems of member countries. Each member will contribute US$20 million and will be unconditionally eligible to swap its own currency for up to US$40 million for three months, renewable for an additional three mon ths. The arrangement is administered by Bank Indonesia. The swap arrangement was signed at the summ it meeting of ASEAN countries on August 5, 1977. In July 1977, Japan decided to extend new loans amounting to US$1 billion to five major proj- ects of ASEAN nations so as to fu r ther integration among ASEAN countries. In April 1977, Australia and New Zealand re- newed for a fu r ther six months their interim agree- ment guaranteeing tariff preferences in each other's market, within the framework of the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). On December 1, 1977 a Permanent Preferences Agree- ment between the two countries came into effect. On February 1, 1977, the Papua New Guinea- Australia Trade and Commercial Relations Agree- ment entered into force. The agreement provides for the elimination of duties by Australia on 99.4 per cent of Papua New Guinea's exports to Australia, and by Papua New Guinea on 76.9 per cent of Australia's exports to Papua New Guinea. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Arrangements Maintained by Member Countries as of March 31, 1978 1 ANNEX Exchange Rate Adjusted Periodically According to a Set of Indicators Argentina Brazil Colombia Portugal Uruguay Cooperative Exchange Ar- rangements 2 Belgium Denmark Germany, Fed. Rep. of Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Other currency Equatorial Gu inea 3 Guinea- Bissau 4 Lesotho 5 Swaziland 6 SDR Bah ra in B u rma Gu inea Iran Jordan Kenya Malawi M a u r i t i us Sao Tome and Principe Tanzania Uganda United A r ab Emirates Zaire Zamb ia Other currency composite Algeria Aus tr ia Cyprus Finland Ind ia Kuwa it Malaysia Malta Maur i tan ia Morocco New Zealand Singapore Sweden Thailand Tunisia Western Samoa Other Afghanistan Australia Canada Chile France Greece Iceland Israel Italy Japan Lebanon Mexico Nigeria Papua New Guinea Peru Philippines Qatar Saudi Arabia Spain Sri Lanka Turkey United Kingdom Un i ted States Viet Nam Yugoslavia Currency Pegged to U.S. dollar Pound sterling French f r anc Bang ladesh G amb i a, The I re land Seychelles Sierra Leone Benin Cameroon Central A f r ican Empire Chad Comoros Congo, People's Rep. of the Gabon Ivo ry Coast Madagascar Mali Niger Senegal Togo Upper Volta Bahamas Barbados Bolivia Botswana Burundi Ch ina, Rep. of Costa Rica Dominican Rep. Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Ethiopia Ghana G renada 7 Gua tema la Guyana Haiti Honduras Indonesia Iraq Jamaica Korea Lao People's Dem. Rep. Liberia Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya Maldives Nepal N icaragua Oman Pakistan Panama Paraguay Roman ia Rwanda Somalia South A f r ica Sudan Syrian A rab Rep. Tr in idad and Tobago Venezuela Yemen A rab Rep. Yemen, People's Dem. Rep. of 1 No cu r r ent in fo rma t ion is available for Cambodia. 2 Members pa r t ic ipa t ing in the Eu ropean common marg ins a r rangemen t. 3 Pegged to the Spanish peseta. 4 Pegged to the Portuguese escudo. 5 The cu r rency of Lesotho is the South A f r i c an rand. 0 Pegged to the South A f r ican rand. 7 The cu r rency of G renada is the East Caribbean dollar. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including two non- metropolitan territories, are given. The exchange sys- tems of five other countries which were not members of the Fund at the end of 1977 are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1977. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to s ign if icant developments that took place early in 1978. The description of an exchange system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange re- strictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restric- tive systems in their entirety, except for the tar iff struc- ture and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit require- ments, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes dur ing 1977" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on inter- national transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in d ra f t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more signifi- cant changes du r ing 1977. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value and /or the central rate and /or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of SDRs, gold, and /or U.S. dol- lars, together w i th a reference to other rates. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1977, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for wo rk ing purposes. Under Prescription of 'Currency, the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, an ind ica t ion is given of the m ann er in which the coun t ry treats the accounts in its currency of account holders who are not regarded as resi- dent in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na ture and opera- tion of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licens- ing requ iremen ts are described briefly, and details are given of other requ iremen ts imposed on paymen ts for impor ts and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other inter- na t ional transactions are exempt f rom the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted, according to adm in i s t ra t ive decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of perm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limita- t ions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose l im i ta t ions on payments for invisibles, this section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see be low). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, w i th an ou t l ine of the requ i remen ts imposed on the proceeds f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" ind ica tes that the recipient is required by the regu la t ions to sell his fore ign exchange aga inst local currency, u sua l ly at the off ic ial rate, to the cen t ral b ank or to a commerc ial bank or exchange dealer au thor ized for th is purpose. In some coun tr ies there is a r equ i r em ent th at the exchange be sold in a free ma rke t. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- ern ing exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the impo rt of fore ign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general ind ica t ion of the special arrangemen ts or limitations attached to in terna t ional receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangemen ts for fore ign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt w i th in this section ra ther than in the sections on Pay- ments for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are summar ized that govern the ho ld ing, negotiation, and impo rt and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On March 22, 1963, an initial par value was estab- lished of 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghan i, corresponding at the time to Af 45 = SDR 1. No ex- change transactions take place at the par value. Afghanistan maintains a multiple exchange rate sys- tem with d iffer ing rates being quoted by Da A fghan is tan Bank (the central b ank ), the commercial banks, and by dealers in the money bazaar. Da Afghanistan Bank quotes official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively, per US$1. The official selling rate applies to certain foreign exchange payments by the Central Government (debt service, contributions to in terna t ional organizations, and the for- eign exchange requirements of A fghan embassies and missions abroad). The official buying rate applies to 40 per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign em- ployees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies, and to purchases of bilateral agree- ment currencies for maintenance in Afghanistan of embassies and state trading organizations by the respec- tive bilateral partner countries. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the money bazaar; proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral pay- ments accounts are subject in principle to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent, but this is now suspended. Da Afghanistan Bank quotes fixed operational free market rates for the U.S. dollar, which are adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1977, these rates were Af 46.00 buying, and Af 47.00 selling, per US$1. Da Afghan is tan Bank's operational buy ing ra te is applicable on ly to the proceeds f rom exports of cotton, fertilizer, karaku l, na tural gas, raisins, and wool; its operational selling rate is applicable to import payments by certain government and other public sector entities. With the exception of these transactions, and those effected at the official rate, all other transactions ( inc lud ing the sale of the proceeds from exports other than those listed above, and pay- ments for all other imports) are effected through either the money bazaar or the commercial banks. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the free market rates in the bazaar were A f 4 2 . 18 buy ing, and Af 42.48 selling, per US$1, and those of the commercial banks were Af 43.00 buying, and Af 44.00 selling, per US$1. Da Afghanistan Bank also posts operational free mar- ket rates for deutsche ma rk, French francs, Ind ian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their value relative to the U.S. dollar in international markets. Da Afghan is tan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 per cent to 0.375 per cent on exchange transactions. Da A fghan i s tan Bank f rom t ime to time buys and sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars resulting partly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghan is tan's bilateral payments agreements;l most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by govern- ment commercial and industrial enterprises for their imports f rom the countries concerned. The selling rate for clearing dollars was Af 47.00 per US$1 on Decem- ber 31, 1977.2 Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies special- izing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for seven authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan is tan has bilateral payments agreementsl must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, how- ever, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas ( and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fu l f i l l- ment of the commitments undertaken in the agreements. Most of the trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, and U.S.S.R. There is also a bilateral payments arrangement with India under which the bulk of trade is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees with the State Bank of India. 2 On December 31, 1977 the selling rate for clearing sterling on outstanding contracts under the payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was Af 95.00 per £ stg. 1. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN The present customs tariff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates vary considerably but are usually between 20 per cent and 35 per cent on stated specific values. Service charges, Red Crescent charges, and the fixed tax are closely related to the import ta r i f f. The service charge is assessed at 2 per cent of the import duty payable, while Red Crescent charges are assessed at 1 per cent of the total of import duty plus the service charge. The fixed tax is assessed at 6 per cent of the total c.i.f. value plus all the above du ty and charges payable. The application of the fixed tax is, however, different for goods classified as a monopoly and a monopoly tax is payable on such imports. The monopoly tax is charged on the total of the c.i.f. value, the import duty, the service charge, and the Red Crescent charge plus a commission charge assessed at 2 per cent of the total. The monopoly tax is then assessed at 15 per cent of this total. In assessing liability to the luxury tax, there is a flat rate special charge called an authorization charge and a variable rate (according to the country of origin of the goods in question), called privilege charge. The authorization charge is assessed at 5 per cent of the total of the import duty, the service charge, the Red Crescent charge, the monopoly tax (if applicable), and the ex-Kabul c.i.f. value of the goods in question. The calculation of the privilege charge is based on the sum of the ex-Kabul c.i.f. value for the goods and all charges payable as described above other than the fixed tax. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries other than India may be made only under letters of credit; those to India may be made against bills for collection. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an under tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. A deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in Afghanis calculated at the prevailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is required by Da Afghan is tan Bank upon establishment of a letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans f rom commer- cial banks. Payments for invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt service and certain other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. There is an exchange allocation from the banks for tourist, business, and medical travel abroad of the equivalent of US$5,000 a person a trip. For medical treatment abroad there are, in addition, allocations for accompanying persons. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 10,000 for tourist travel and Af 5,000 for business travel (Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of trave l). Specific permission is required for the export by travelers of foreign currency notes in excess of the 30 equivalent of US$5,000. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Karakul is not normally exported to payments agreement countries, but may be sold at auction at Leningrad. Receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered. The net proceeds of exports of these three commodities and of exports of raisins, natural gas, and fertilizer may be sold to Da Afghan is tan Bank at its operational market rate, while the net proceeds of all other exports must either be sold at free market rates (to Da Afghanistan Bank, to a commercial bank, or in the money bazaar) or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, raisins, and walnuts. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of for- eign employees of the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate, but the remaining 60 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of India, receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts from the embassies and state trading organiza- tions of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the money bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in any amount in Afghan banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Com- mittee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul prov- ince ), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemp- tion f rom import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemp- tion f rom export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements f rom enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are no more than 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent higher than the price of importable equivalents. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can only take place through jo int ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 per cent. It also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghanistan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total regis- tered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Minis- ters; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. AFGHANISTAN Changes during 1977 January 2. Exchange allocations for all types of travel were raised to US$3,000 a person, except for travel to certain neighboring Asian countries for which the allo- cation was raised to US$2,000. May 16. Da Afghanistan Bank changed its opera- tional market rates from Af 50 buying, and AF 51 sell- ing, per US$1 to Af 48 buying, and Af 49 selling, per US$1, respectively. The exchange rate for the Czecho- slovak and the U.S.S.R. clearing dollars was left unchanged. May 16. Exchange allocations for travel were raised f rom US$3,000 to US$5,000. June 20. The exchange rates for Czechoslovak and U.S.S.R. clearing dollars were unified with the rates for convertible dollars at Af 48 buying, and Af 49 selling, respectively. November 24. Payments arrangements under the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China were moved from a sterling to a dollar basis. December 1. Da Afghanistan Bank changed its opera- tional market rates to Af 46 buying, and Af 47 selling, per US$1. At the same time the Bank decided to limit its purchases of foreign exchange to the proceeds from sales of major exports, i.e., cotton, fertilizer, karakul, natural gas, raisins, and wool. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per Algerian Dinar. Algeria avails itself of wider marg ins. Since Janua ry 21, 1974 Algeria has followed an inde- pendent exchange rate policy. Daily buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies l are established by the Central Bank of Algeria. On December 31, 1977, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 4.0275 and DA 4.0425, respectively, per US$ 1. The Central Bank charges on its transactions in foreign currencies a commission rang ing f rom 0.2 per mill to 0.4 per mill, depending on the na tu re of the transac t ion, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians work ing abroad. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their fore ign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day bu t, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold outside Algeria cover for docu- mentary credits. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formu la t ion of the exchange legisla- tion and regulations and is responsible for their execu- tion and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion have been given au tho r i ty to carry out many of the details of exchange control. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Trans- port, la Transforma t ion et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products, and handles most exports of these com- modities. Investment of fore ign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a Na t ional Investment Committee in order to ob ta in the benefits of the Investment Code. Foreign borrow ing requires the prior approval either of the M in is ter of Finance or of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries with which no paymen ts agreements are in force are made in convertible cur- 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 32 rencies. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. For residents of French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian d inars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts.3 Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened prior to J anu a ry 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of fore ign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization f rom the Central Bank. They may be credited freely for authorized imports f rom the French Franc Area and with proceeds f rom the sale of con- vertible currencies; with proceeds f rom the sale of freely disposable funds (o ther than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and w i th interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other paymen ts. They may be debited freely for any payment in A lger ia to a resident of any coun t ry in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lge r ia ); for any t r an s f er to the credit of an account of a person res id ing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with wh ich the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; w i th the pro- ceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a notary 2 Algeria maintains payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, North Korea, and the U.S.S.R. Specified non- commercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a d irham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tun i s i an d in a rs at the Cen tral Bank of Tunisia. The agreement w i th G u i n ea is inop e r a t iv e. 3 Final Depa r tu re Accounts may be opened for all fo re ign nationals resident in Algeria, irrespec t ive of mone ta ry area, upon r e t u rn to their coun try of origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through the intermediary of a bank; and with any other pay- ments, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may author- ize the crediting of other specific payments. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Nonresidents may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are fed with the proceeds from the con- version of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- devises). Depositors receive a premium equivalent in principle to one eighth of the amounts deposited; in practice, the premium is a flexible one ensuring an effec- tive conversion rate of F 1 = DA 1. Withdrawals may be made only in Algerian dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Certain commodities are liberalized and do not require import licenses.4 All other imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. This is implemented mainly through global import authorizations (autorisations globales d'importa- tion or AGI) granted to public enterprises. Imports made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any kind, are in no way commercial in nature, and are not subject to any specific prohibition, are exempt from all exchange and trade control formalities when valued at DA 1,000 or less.5 The Government, in principle, has the monop- oly over the importation of many commodities through the Office National de Commercialisation (ONAGO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Vitivinicoles (ONCV ), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED ), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS ), the Societe Na t iona le de Constructions M e c a n i q u es ( S O N A C O M E ), S O N A T R A C H, a nd o t h er similar organizations, but imports are not necessarily restricted to the monopoly holders. These imports also are made within the framework of an annual import program. Prior to the transaction, all imports must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. All individual import licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of an 4 A law of February 11, 1978 gives the Government a monopoly over foreign trade. 5 The exempt value of imports "without payment" was raised to DA 5,000 by the Finance Law of 1978. ALGERIA approved commercial contract, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping docu- ments have been presented to the bank; the importer may then open a documentary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Goods subject to import license and quota restrictions may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of a shipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting docu- ments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Admin- istration, either freely or up to specified limits for cer- tain payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) edu- cational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, however, which receive spe- cial exchange allocations (budget devises) may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of fam i ly remittances is suspended. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 55 per cent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 75 per cent for persons having their families abroad; 85 per cent for employees of mines and the hydrocarbon sector, and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vaca- tions abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their leave and not to exceed one mon th ). For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 35, 55, and 100 per cent. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Per- sons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for edu- cational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, the for- eign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 300 a person a trip (DA 150 for children under 15) and is delivered on presentation of a valid passport and the travel vouchers; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 300 a person a calendar semester for adults and DA 150 for children under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. Algerian 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA workers who have permission to emigrate are entitled to an exchange allocation upon departure. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria, may upon return abroad repurchase foreign exchange equivalent to one fifth of the amount sold upon arrival, but not exceeding DA 1,000. Foreign exchange for pri- vate business travel, unless debited to an EDAC or EDAB Account (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), is subject to authorization by the Central Bank and allocations may not exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia may obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 4,300 a per- son; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammun i t ion, explo- sives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports may, in principle, be effected freely, without an export license, with the exception of exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements. Some com- modities may be exported, subject to individual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transac- tions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authoriza- tion by the M in is try of Finance and registration must always take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after collection; the due date of the export contract must be not later than 60 days following shipment, except when prior authorization from the Central Bank is obtained. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a contractual price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum com- pany holding mineral rights, however, there are d i f fe rent repatriation requirements. Exporters in the private sector may retain 2 per cent (1 per cent for consignment sales) of the export pro- ceeds of all commodities other than hydrocarbons in special accounts, unless exports are made on a compen- sation basis (echanges compenses). These accounts are of two kinds —EDAC (Exportateurs-dinars convertibles) and EDAB (Exportateurs-dinars bilateraux). Balances in these accounts are not transferable and may be used by the holder himself for business travel, certain services of foreign technicians, and imports of spare parts; bal- 34 ances in excess of DA 100,000 in either type of account are inconvertible. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sur- rendered. Savings repatriated in the form of convertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an "encouragement premium." There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travel- ers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capi- tal assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code was promulgated on Septem- ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors, for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and it establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under the terms of Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Trans- formation de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regu- lations, to import and export any precious metal, includ- ing gold. AGENOR began operations in 1975. Further- more, locally produced gold must be sold to this agency. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. At the end of 1977 all exchange transactions took place in a free exchange market. On December 29, 1977 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were $a 596 and $a 599 per US$1, respectively. Exchange transactions are subject to a tax of 0.6 per cent on purchases and sales of foreign exchange.1 Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. Transactions with other coun- tries must be settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, pro- vided that the accounts are fed with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argen- tina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing. Payments may be made in any convertible currency. However, certain import suspensions are in effect.2 In addition, all imports by the private or public sector require a sworn declaration of need (declaration jurada de necesidad) submitted by the importer to the National Import Board. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial, and must be approved by the Secretariat of State for Commerce. The declara- tions of eight foreign-owned automobile assembly plants 1 Forward exchange operations are suspended. a At the end of 1977, these prohibitions were applied only to automobiles. are automatically authorized if they have received the prior approval of the Secretariat of State for Industrial Development. Imports of some vehicles and engines are prohibited. At the end of 1977 imports of used goods were sus- pended, except for used capital goods which might be imported if authorization were obtained from the Secre- tariat of State for Industrial Development. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of 3 per cent payable normally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1.5 per cent or 0.3 per cent applicable to all imports; a stamp duty of 0.6 per cent; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and sales taxes ranging from 5 per cent to 22 per cent. All maritime imports are subject to a tax of 12 per cent on freight, unless transported in Argentine vessels. Authorized banks are prohibited f rom opening docu- mentary credits in respect of public sector imports (other than for those originating in LAFTA countries) except with prior authorization from the Government. Payments for imports in general may be made ten days in advance of the due date, on that date, or thereafter, regardless of the instrument used. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. How- ever, allocations of foreign exchange for licensing fees, royalties, and technical services are subject to prior approval of the contracts by the National Registry of Contracts, Licenses, and Transfer of Technology. Sales of foreign exchange without a written declaration of purpose are permitted up to US$1,000.3 There are no limits with respect to purchases of f0r- eign currency by Argentine residents for travel purposes. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic bank- notes and coins except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of exports are prohibited or restricted. Minimum export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The full f.o.b. proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the reference price or, if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Exporters of traditional commodi- ties are required to receive the foreign exchange pro- ceeds either before shipment or under an irrevocable documentary credit payable against shipping documents 3 This limit was raised to US$5,000 on January 6, 1978. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine pesos belonging to for- eign investors, provided that these pesos are transferable abroad; capitalization of external credits in freely con- vertible foreign currency; intangible assets (bienes ARGENTINA in Argentina, and they must sell these proceeds within 20 working days after shipment. The proceeds f rom pro- moted exports (listed in Central Bank Circular R.C. 424) must be surrendered within 180 days of shipment, and payments may be received against drafts, in addition to the forms of payment prescribed for traditional exports. There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, periodicals, and sheet music. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates (reintegro and reembolso). Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on reference prices. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 31 days when there is a bank guarantee of payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight cost. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 2 per cent tax on exports of agricultural and livestock products, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agri- cultural and Livestock Technology, and a tax of 1 per cent or 2.5 per cent, depending on the product, levied on grain exports and earmarked for the National Grain Board. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Cen- tral Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services.4 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins, as well as gold coins. Capital Proceeds from foreign loans must be sold in the free market. There are in general no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents, although residents may not borrow abroad for less than two years. Outward capital transfers are restricted. Sales of exchange in connection with investments, placements, or deposits within Argentina or abroad require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of Novem- ber 25, 1975. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 21382 of August 13, 1976) and its implementing decree (Decree No. 283 of February 4, 1977) govern all aspects of investments of foreign capital. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency; new or used 4 The Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and ordinary risks, and also coverage for ex traord inary risks, for exports of capital goods, consumer du- rables, and certain other consumer goods. approved. The right to t rans fer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. In that event, foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the remittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securities denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest ruling in the international ma rke t, against provision of the equivalent in Argentine pesos. Profits in money or in kind on registered foreign capi- tal are subject to a special tax when they exceed 12 per cent of registered capital. This tax is 15 per cent on remitted profits of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of registered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of registered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more than 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71 ). Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argen t ina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in A rg en t ina to en t i t i es and houses au tho r- ized to deal in foreign exchange.5 Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical du ty of 0.6 per cent, and those by other users are subject in addition to sales tax. Exports of gold may be effected by entities and houses authorized to engage in exchange transac- tions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. Changes during 1977 January 6. The period for purchasing 1976 External Bonds was extended un t il June 30 (Resolution No. 6/77 of the Secretariat of State for Finance). January 11. Import duties were reduced, in most cases to the m in imum level of 5 per cent, for 252 items, mostly foods tuffs or fibers normally exported by Argen- tina (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 13/77). January 11. The export of live bulls, cows, calves, oxen, heifers, and certain other bovine an ima ls for slaughter was prohibited. January 11. Export prohibitions with regard to cer- tain types of fa ts and oils were lifted. January 11. About 200 items of foods tuffs and raw materials normally exported by Argentina were exempted from the 180-day financing requ iremen t. It was estab- lished that in respect of these items, the requ i rement to buy Foreign Trade Investment Bonds was optional (Central Bank Circular R.C. 674). January 12. The prohibition on imports of uncarded 5 Authorized entities and houses may in tu rn sell such gold coins to resident individuals. ARGENTINA cotton was eliminated (Central Bank Telephonic Com- munication No. 3766). January 12. The prohibition on the export of bird feed produced from bones and seeds was removed (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 3 7 / 7 7 ). January 13. The rate of charges on swaps with the Central Bank was raised to 66 per cent, on an annual basis and payable in advance (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3767). January 25. The import quota for natural and syn- thetic rubber was extended until June 30. January 27. The rate of charges on swaps with the Central Bank was raised to 75 per cent, on an annual basis and payable in advance (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3775). January 27. The term for the surrender of proceeds from traditional exports (and certain promoted exports not receiving special trea tment with regard to exchange surrender requirements) was increased from 10 to 20 working days after the date of shipment. In the case of promoted products, the 20 days were to be counted f rom the date of maturity of the document covering the export (Central Bank Circular R.C. 676). January 27. Proceeds f rom external credits obtained without Central Bank exchange guarantees by the private sector could now be realized without prior approval of the Central Bank. However, loans f rom foreign enter- prises to Argentine subsidiaries, as well as public sector borrowing, continued to require prior approval of the Central Bank (Central Bank Circular R.C. 680). January 27. Procedures for approving certain opera- tions connected with exports without prior clearance were liberalized. The operations included adjustments for a reduction of up to 20 per cent in f.o.b. value for returns of books and periodicals and of payment orders for shipments that did not take place and for temporary exports (Central Bank Circular R.C. 677 ). January 27. The previous obligation for residents to surrender their foreign exchange earnings within 30 days of realizing them was abolished (Central Bank Circular R.C. 681). January 27. Authorized entities were permitted to carry out a number of d ifferent types of service pay- ments and t rans fe rs w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank (Central Bank Circular R.C. 679). January 28. Imports of noncapital goods with an f.o.b. value of US$25,000 or less were exempted from the 180-day m i n im um foreign financing requ irement and from the obligation to purchase Foreign Trade Invest- ment Bonds; previously, this exemption had applied to imports of US$2,000 or less. For such imports of over US$25,000, the m in imum foreign financing requirement and obligation to purchase Foreign Trade Investment Bonds now applied to 25 per cent of f.o.b. value, instead of 50 per cent as previously. Prescription of currency requ i remen ts were liberalized, so that any of 16 con- 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA vertible currencies could be used for import payments from any country (except for countries that have recip- rocal credit arrangements with A rgen t ina ); previously, payment for imports f rom 14 countries in Western Europe and f rom Canada and Japan had to be made in U.S. dollars or in the currency of the exporter. Finally, certain types of import-related payments could now be made without prior Central Bank approval (Central Bank Circular R.C. 678). January 28. Regulations with regard to prescription of currency were liberalized, permitting export proceeds to be realized in any convertible currency, with the exception of exports made under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Previously, proceeds from exports to 14 countries in Western Europe and to Canada and Japan had to be received either in the currency of the impo r t ing country or in U.S. dollars, and those to other countries (outside LAFTA agreements) had to be received in U.S. dollars or in one of the 16 convertible currencies mentioned above. Authorized entities were permitted to carry out certain export-related operations without prior Central Bank approval (Central Bank Circular R.C. 677). January 28. Sales of fore ign exchange in the free market could be made ten working days prior to the contracted date of settlement of the foreign payment obligation (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3779). February 7. Imports into the special customs area of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and Islands of the South Atlantic could be paid for in any manner agreed by the parties, provided this had been determined prior to ship- ment. Furthermore, the purchase of Foreign Trade Investment Bonds in respect of such imports was made optional (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3788). February 21. The prohibition on imports of yerba mate was suspended for 180 days (Executive Decree No. 467 /77 ). March 10. The requ irement that profit, dividend, and royalty payments abroad be made by means of U.S. dollar-denominated External Bonds was abolished (Executive Decree No. 627/77, Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 197/77, and Central Bank Circulars R.C. 683 and 684). March 16. Further to Central Bank Circular R.C. 679, other service payments and t rans fe rs abroad could now be made directly through banks, thereby e l im ina t ing the requirement for Central Bank approval (Cen tral Bank Circular R.C. 687 ). March 17. The max imum values of samples that could be imported was raised f rom US$100 to US$1,000. The max imum payment of commission to selling agents abroad was raised f rom 4 per cent to 6 per cent of the f.o.b. value for trad i t ional products and those supervised by the Na t ional Meat Board, from 6 per cent to 10 per 38 cent of the f.o.b. value for promoted products in general, and from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value for certain promoted products (Central Bank Circular R.C. 686). March 17. Minimum foreign financing requirements for imports of noncapital goods were abolished and pur- chases of Foreign Trade Investment Bonds became optional (Central Bank Circular R.C. 685). March 30. The prohibition on the export of sheep- skins was extended until September 30 (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 228 /77 ). March 30. An export quota was fixed for soya meal (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 230 /77 ). April 6. Importers of carbonate of soda were required to subscribe to shares of the firm of Alcalis de la Pata- gonia, S.A., in an amount corresponding to the quantity imported and equal to 10 per cent of the value per ton established in advance, with a ceiling of US$25 per ton (Resolution No. 251/77 of the Secretariat of State for Indus tr ial Development). April 6. Minimum financing requirements for imports of capital goods were liberalized. The value of imports not subject to these requirements was raised from a ceiling of US$25,000 to US$50,000. The minimum financing terms were reduced f rom a range of two to five and a half years to a range of one to five years, depending upon the size of the import (Central Bank Circular R.C. 688). April 14. Export rebates were introduced for a period of 180 days for raisins and wine in bulk at rates of 5 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. The rebate for bottled wine was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 249 /77 ). April 27. All limits were removed for purchases of foreign currency by Argentine residents for travel pur- poses (Central Bank Circular R.C. 689). May 9. Sales of foreign exchange of up to US$1,000 (or equivalent in other currencies), without regard to purpose, were freely permitted. These sales could be in the fo rm of foreign currency or transfers. Consequently, payments of up to US$1,000 for fam i ly assistance or for subscription to periodicals could now also be made (Central Bank Circular R.C. 691). May 9. Loans from a foreign enterprise to an Argen- tine enterprise under its control were made subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. The borrowing enterprise had to subm i t, w i th its application, a state- ment of its internal and external indebtedness (not more than 60 days out of da te) and a general financial state- ment (Central Bank Circular R.C. 692 ). May 24. The statistical tax on exports was raised f rom 0.3 per cent to 1 per cent (Executive Decree No. 1258/77). May 27. With respect to imports of capital goods valued at up to US$50,000 registered at times when such imports were subject to m in imum foreign financing requirements, the rema in ing payments due could be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution made in advance of initially determined maturities (Cen- tral Bank Circular R.C. 694). June 16. The prohibition on imports of cigarettes was lifted (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 507 /77). June 23. The permission to purchase US$ 1,000 with- out a written declaration of the purpose of the purchase was made applicable to (1) any operations covered by current regulations that required prior clearance by the Central Bank, and (2) purchases of foreign exchange with pesos from nonresident accounts (Central Bank Circular R.C. 697). July 1. Central Bank approval of, and extension of exchange guarantees for, new or renewed swap opera- tions was suspended (Central Bank Telephonic Com- munication No. 3903). July 11. Purchases of Foreign Trade Investment Bonds were suspended (Central Bank Telephonic Com- munication No. 3914). July 14. M in imum foreign f inanc ing requirements for imports of capital goods with an f.o.b. value of over US$50,000 were eliminated for private sector imports, which were self financed and did not involve domestic or foreign loans from third parties, while continuing to apply to public sector imports (Central Bank Circular R.C. 701). July 18. Authorization was given to make direct pay- ments abroad for international credit card transactions (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3926). July 27. A new industrial promotion law went into effect, specifying, inter alia, exemptions from, or reduc- tions of, import duties on capital goods and their spare parts if they were not locally produced; temporary restrictions on the import of goods similar to those which were to be produced; and modification of, or exemption from, import duties for the raw materials entering the production process (Law No. 21,608). August 29. The m in imum repayment period for for- eign credits to be contracted was set at 360 days (Cen- tral Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3956). September 5. The import suspension on tractors was lifted (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 754/77). ARGENTINA September 23. The system of financial incentives for exports ("prefinancing") was extensively revised. Changes were introduced in the classification of com- modities. The proportion of f inanc ing was changed f rom 60 per cent of the f.o.b. value to 55 per cent and 40 per cent for "other promoted products" and f rom 65 per cent to 60 per cent for durable and semidurable goods. Capital goods remained at 60 per cent. The system of "postfinancing," under which credit was granted for export contracts already entered into, was terminated (Central Bank Circulars R.F. 98, 99, and 100). September 23. The prior use requirement for advance payment of bills discounted by the Central Bank was eliminated (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 3970). September 28. The tax on the sale, purchase, or exchange of foreign currencies was un i f ied at 0.6 per cent (Cen tral Bank Circular R.C. 705). September 29. It was announced that the Central Bank would intervene as a regulator in the exchange market by directly buying foreign exchange f rom and selling it to the entities. October 19. The system of income-tax re funds of up to 10 per cent of the value of exports, due to expire by the end of 1977 was extended un t il the end of 1979 (Executive Decree No. 3181 /77 ). November 25. The m in imum ma tur i ty of foreign currency loans was increased to two years. The only exemption was credits to finance foreign trade transac- tions (Central Bank Telephonic Communication No. 4018). November 29. The prohibition on sales of gold coins to the public by exchange houses and entities was l if ted, although supplies of such coin could come only from local purchases (Central Bank Circular R.C. 708). December 6. A new system of export f i n a n c i ng was announced, effective January 1, 1978. Under the new system the principal of loans would be tied to the U.S. dollar. During the first six months of the new system, exporters would be entitled to loans covering up to 80 or 90 per cent of the value of their exports (Central Bank Circular R.F. 153). 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.09578 grams of fine gold per Australian Dollar.1 On September 25, 1974, the direct link with the U.S. dollar was discontinued and a trade- weighted system of calculating the exchange rate was introduced; under this system the exchange rate for the Australian dollar was determined by changes in an average of foreign currency values weighted in accord- ance with their trading significance to Aus tra l ia. The value of the Australian dollar changed f rom day to day against individual foreign currencies, but remained con- stant against the trade-weighted average of overseas cur- rencies. On November 29, 1976, the practice of pegging the rate for lengthy periods was discontinued and since then the level of the exchange rate in relation to the "basket" has been kept under continuing review. The rate is expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was $A 1 = US$1.1414, and the official limits at or within which banks were to effect spot trans- actions with the public in U.S. dollars were US$1.1438 and US$1.1390 per $A 1. Banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies; quotations are based on rates in overseas markets. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks by residents for periods appropri- ate to the nature of the transaction in respect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions. For- ward exchange cover for transactions in certain invisibles of a noncapital na ture may also be arranged. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the t rad ing banks in U.S. dollars. Banks act as principals in all foreign currency transactions, both spot and fo rwa rd, and are free to determine their own fo rwa rd rates for all currencies; they are required to restrict their uncov- ered positions and may not carry excessive balances abroad. Australia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Govern- ment with the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control on behalf of the Aus tra l ian Treas- urer and delegates considerable discretionary powers to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export controls are admin- istered by the Department of Business and Consumer Affa irs. Other departments are responsible for some policy aspects of controls on imports and exports. l fThe Australian dollar also circulates in a number of other coun- tries, including Gilbert Islands, Nau ru, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands, and Tuvalu. 40 Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, payments may be made in Australian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any fore ign currency ;2 if imports are invoiced in foreign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds f rom exports may be received in Australian currency f rom an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Australia, or in any for- eign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a t rans fer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents, provided that for amoun ts of $A 100,000 or more any necessary Reserve Bank approval has been issued for the unde r ly ing trans- action. The balance on an account held by any non- resident may be w i thdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are not generally permitted to borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments Generally goods may be imported w i thout import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. The latter normally must be made not earlier than one month before and not later than six months a f ter the arrival of the goods in Aus tra l ia; con- sent to longer periods is given only where it is estab- lished that longer periods are normal commercial prac- tice. Import restrictions are imposed for a number of reasons, though not for exchange control purposes. Import controls are maintained on certain goods, mainly for reasons of industry assistance, health, community protection, or security, or to ma in ta in quality standards. Ships, new or secondhand, are classified as prohibited imports under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regu- lations, except in cases where the w r i t ten consent of the Minister for Transport has been obtained. A general consent has been given by the Minister for certain small, new and secondhand vessels. Similarly, a i rc ra ft and air- c ra ft engines may only be imported with the w r i t ten consent of the Secretary to the Depar tment of Transport. The current practice is for a ircraft under 5700 kilograms to be granted import permits automatically where they meet technical requirements. In accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council, man- datory sanctions are applied against Rhodesia. 2 Foreign currencies are denned as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of remittances to Rho- desia, which are contrary to UN sanctions, they are not restricted. The control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; in addition, remittances to the New Hebrides are subject to a screening pro- cedure to ensure that no tax minimization transactions are involved. Applications for outward transfers in con- nection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; generally forms do not have to be filled out for amoun ts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no limit on travel funds. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $A 1,500 for each additional mon th up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amoun ts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for unau thor ized capital trans- fers. Similarly, no specific limits are placed on remit- tances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six months a f ter the date when pay- ment is contractually due; consent to longer de fe rment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid w i th in one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with fore ign insurers. Travelers may take out, without special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Australian coins. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in foreign bank- notes w i th in six months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Bank ing (Foreign Exchange) Regu la t ions, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank; the approved period is w i th in six months prior to or a f ter the date of exportation, but where the va lue of the goods exceeds $A 10,000 the approved period for receipt prior to the da te of exportation is one mon th, longer periods being allowed only where the prepayment is in accordance w i th normal commercial practice. Australia's external territories are exempt f rom export licensing. To assist supervision, there is a condition (in the case of export licenses covering goods exported by ship) that AUSTRALIA all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or to a trading bank acting as its agent. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of specified goods may be prohibited absolutely or may be permitted subject to prescribed conditions. Export control over raw or semiprocessed minerals is regarded as a reserve power, which will not be invoked provided the export prices commercially negotiated by exporters are related to world market levels and the export sales do not conflict with national interests. Controls are also exercised for the purposes of ensuring that obligations under international commodity agreements are observed, of complementing orderly marketing arrangements under Aus tra l ian legislation, and of ensuring that domestic needs for certain agricultural imports are satisfied ahead of export demands. There are provisions for govern- ment control over the export of defense material. Con- trols also exist over exports of Australian-registered ships to ensure that at all times adequate shipping is available for the purpose of trade and commerce among the states and territories of Australia. In accordance with UN Resolution No. 253 of 1968, Australia enforces trade sanctions against Rhodesia. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital f rom Australia require approval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct investments. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a significant measure of Australian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Australian investments abroad. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- dents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securi- ties, but they are not normally permitted to trade among themselves in foreign securities except those issued oif an Australian register. The export of securities and cer- tain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Applications by resident individuals to invest abroad in amounts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-month period normally are readily approved; institutional investors and public companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 million in 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA any 12-month period. Applications for investments in larger amoun ts may be approved in special circum- stances. E l ig ib le inves tmen ts inc lude po r t fo l io inves t- ments abroad in stocks and shares and investments in real estate; they do not include inves tmen ts in loans or other fixed-interest securities. When exchange con trol approval is be ing sought, investment in and other t rans- actions of a capital na tu re w i th coun tr ies designated as tax havens 3 require a tax clearance certificate f rom the Commissioner of Taxation. Approval is required for residents to borrow Aus t ra- l ian or fore ign currency f rom any nonres iden t, or to incur a l iab i l i ty to a non res iden t; the coverage of the controls over overseas borrowings includes not only fo rmal con trac ts to borrow but also indirect fo rms of borrow ing and transac t ions hav ing a similar effect on capital in f low. In add i t ion, residents are required to obtain app roval to draw, issue, or negotiate any b i ll of exchange or promissory note, to en ter in to contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that ac tual or con t ingent rights to paymen ts, any other va luab le consideration, or services are created in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or t ran s fer securi- ties to, or register securities in the n ame of, any non- resident. The issue of guaran tees in Aus t ra l ian or fo r- eign currency by or on behalf of Aus t ra l ian residents is permitted where the unde r ly ing t ransac t ions con fo rm w i th exchange control policy. Controls have been estab- lished over borrowings (other than for trade transac- tions on normal t rade credit te rms) f r om overseas lenders of foreign or Aus t ra l ian cu r rency in amoun ts exceeding $A 200,000 a borrower in any 12-month period. There is an embargo on such borrowings wh ich are repayab le, or carry op t ions to repay, in less than 6 mon ths. Under the terms of the var iab le deposit requ i rement scheme (at present su spended ), persons rece iv ing approval for fore ign borrowings for periods in excess of the embargo period are required to lodge a proportion of the amount d rawn w i th the Reserve Bank, through the ir own banks, as a nonass ignab le, noninterest- bear ing deposit in local currency. Deposits taken by the Reserve Bank when the var iab le deposit requ irement scheme was in operation con t inued to be held on the cond i t ions or ig ina l ly advised to the ind iv idual borrowers. The bo r row ing restrictions, inc lud ing the deposit requ i remen t, are applicable to the acceptance of deposits f rom overseas res iden ts by a wide range of financial in te rmed ia r ie s. The borrow ing embargo also applies to subscriptions by nonres iden ts to new issues of fixed- interest securities hav ing a m a tu r i ty of less than 6 months and to purchases by nonresidents of existing securities having less than 6 months to run to ma tur i ty .4 The var iab le deposit requirement scheme also applies to nonresident inves tment in fixed-interest securities ma tur- ing in a period in excess of the embargo period. Austra- lian banks are required to cite specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $ A 100,000 or more. Increases in indebtedness through intercom- pany accounts that could have the effect of circumvent- ing the borrow ing controls are prohibited. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval. In addition, the Government has a general policy on foreign inves tment which applies to all fo rms of fore ign investment, whether or not exchange control approvals are required. This policy is basically one of encouragement because of the various economic benefits that the Government believes foreign investment confers on the Aus tra l ian economy. Cer ta in categories of such inves tment are, however, subject to examination to ensure that they would not be contrary to the national interest. The exam ina t ion procedures are kept as simple as possible and interference with no rmal commercial processes is kept to a m in imum. The Government is advised on fore ign investment matters generally by a Foreign Investment Review Board. The examinable categories of investment are: ( 1) proposals fa l l ing within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, includ- ing certain s ign if icant increases in foreign ownership of businesses even where there is no change of control; (2) proposals involving the establishment of new non- bank financial ins t i tu t ions and insu rance companies; ( 3) proposals to establish other new businesses or to unde r take m in ing or na tu ral resources projects where the amount of investment is $A 1 million or more; and (4) certain acquisitions by foreign interests of Austra- l ian real estate. The basic criteria for examination encompass the net economic benefits and employment opportunities offered by the proposal, the level of Austra- lian equity participation and management involved, and the likely effect of the proposal on the Government's general economic and social policies. Additional cri- teria apply to proposed investment in certain industries of particular significance. The most notable of these are mineral, agricultural, pastoral, fishing, and fores try developments. Uran ium developments require a mini- mum of 75 per cent Australian equity and Australian control. In the remaining na tural resource sectors, the goal is 50 per cent Australian equity together with at least 50 per cent of board voting strength to be held by Australian interests. However, apart from uran ium, projects in the area of na tu ral resources may be allowed to proceed with less than 50 per cent Australian equity if such equity is not available on reasonable terms and conditions. 3 These are listed as Bahamas, Be rmuda, Br i t ish Channel Islands, Br i t ish V i rg in Islands, Cayman Islands, G ib ra l ta r, G renada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembou rg, N a u r u, Netherlands Antilles, New Hebrides, Panama, Solomon Islands, Swit- zerland, and Tonga. 4 The embargo on nonresident deposits and nonresident investment in fixed-interest securities only applies to a nonres ident whose invest- ment aggregates more than $A 50,000 in any 12-month period and where the investment is taken up w i th f u n ds rem i t ted to Australia a f ter July 6, 1977. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution There are no special restrictions on domestic bank credit to overseas-owned or overseas-controlled com- panies in Australia. Gold There are no restrictions on residents own ing, buy ing, or selling gold and gold coins in Australia. Residents may export and import gold subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Changes during 1977 January 1. Tariff quota arrangements on certain polyester and polyamide yarns and brassieres were extended. Import quotas on files and rasps were con- tinued to June 30. January 9. Imports of pencils coated with toxic paint were banned with effect f rom Janua ry 7. January 17. Market purchases by nonresidents of existing fixed-interest securities and market purchases of, and subscriptions by, nonresidents to Common- wealth government securities were prohibited. Controls on overseas borrowing extended the already existing embargo on borrowings of less than six months to bor- rowings of less than two years. Those borrowing overseas for two years or more for purposes other than exempt capital investment (certain capital investments by the m in ing and manu fac tu r ing sector) were required to lodge a noninterest-bearing deposit w i th the Reserve Bank initially equal to 25 per cent of the borrowing for a max imum of three years. In the case of borrowings with a ma tur i ty of f rom two to three years, the repay- ment of the deposit would occur when the loan was repaid. A committee was established to assist the Reserve Bank in deciding which investments were eligi- ble for exemption. If exemption were gran ted, borrow- ing would be permitted to be drawn only over a specified period according to an approved schedule. Measures were introduced to reduce the scope for "leads and lags" in international transactions, inc lud ing surveillance over decreases in in te rcompany indebtedness. January 20. Import quotas on cu r ta ins and kn i t ted or crocheted net fabrics were discontinued. (These quo tas were restored with e f fect f rom November 1.) February 23. Imports of certain goods wh ich might encourage drug tak ing (e.g., toy hypodermic sy r inges) were prohibited. February 25. Tariff quotas were imposed on bench and pedestal drilling machines, not power driven, for the 1977 calendar year. March 1. Tariff quota levels were reduced on certain items of clothing, acrylic apparel yarns, and kn i t ted man-made fiber fabrics, and ta r i ff quo tas were intro- duced on toweling and kn i t ted pile fabrics of man-made fiber. April 18. Clothing imports f rom New Zealand were brought under the tar iff quota system. April 29. Tariff quotas on imports of clothing, foot- wear, and textiles were extended f rom 12 mon ths' to 18 AUSTRALIA months' duration, i.e., to June 30, 1978 for footwear and brassieres and to August 31, 1978 for textiles and other clothing. May 6. Foreign borrowings by Australian financial intermediaries to on-lend for certain categories of mining and manu fac tu r ing investment were exempted f rom the var iab le deposit requirement. May 31. Tariff quotas on uncoated paper and paper- board were removed. June 3. Tariffs on imports of orange juice were increased and tar iff quotas on orange juice and orange ju ice concentrates were removed with effect from June 30. Temporary additional duties were imposed on ra in and golf umbrellas. June 6. Tariff quotas on thick plywood were extended. June 17. Temporary additional duties were imposed on cer ta in ceramic floor and wall tiles. July 1. Tariff quotas on childrens' kn i t ted suits (track- suits, playsuits, rompersuits, etc.) were introduced retro- spectively f rom May 1. July 7. The variable deposit requ i remen t, introduced on January 17, was suspended and the embargo on borrowings of less than two years was reduced to an embargo on borrowings of less than six mon ths. Market purchases by nonresidents of all types of existing issues of fixed-interest securities were again permissible pro- vided they had a rema in ing ma tu r i ty of at least 6 months. The embargo on nonresident investment in fixed-interest securities with a ma tur i ty of less than 6 months now applied on ly where such deposits and inves tmen ts by a s ing le nonresident aggregated more t h an $A 5,000 in any 12-month period and where the investments were taken up with funds remitted to Australia a f ter Ju ly 6. July 22. Temporary additional duties were imposed on imports of carpets. August 1. Tariff quotas on bags and sacks of man- made fibers were terminated. August 8. Imports of certain yarns, fabrics, and apparel containing tris phosphate were prohibited. August 10. The import quota period on imports of certain chest-type freezers was extended. August 17. The extension of the period of tariff quota allocations (see April 29 entry, above) on cloth- ing, footwear, and textiles was modified so that the supplementary quotas for the add i t ional six months would be less than those in force for 20 of the 31 product categories subject to quota. August 25. The Commonwealth government's u r a n i um m in ing and export policy was announced. New projects would now be permitted, subject to env ironmen tal pro- tection measures and effective safeguards. August 26. Tariff quotas were introduced on imports of vices and certain tire-cord fabrics, retrospectively from July 1. September 1. Tariff quotas on cotton sheeting were terminated. September 16. Imports of bullet-proof protective 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA jackets, vests, body armor, and other apparel were prohibited. September 29. Temporary additional duties and ta r i ff quotas were introduced on imported brandy. October 6. Import quotas on imports of automobiles, which had been lifted in December 1976, were reim- posed w i th effect f rom July 13. The quota for the final quarter of 1977 remained at the level previously an- nounced, equivalent to 90,000 vehicles a year. The Government announced that quotas would con t inue to operate in 1978 and 1979: imports would be limited to 94,000 vehicles in 1978 and not less than 90,000 in 1979. It was also announced that w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978 quotas would be transferab le. The previous tariff trigger mechanism whereby the du ty on imports was reduced from 45 per cent to 35 per cent when the total volume of imports fell below the limit of 20 per cent of registrations, was suspended un t il Decem- ber 31, 1980. Until the end of 1980 the 45 per cent ta r i ff would apply to all imported automobiles. October 26. Temporary additional duties were im- posed on imports of passenger automobile radial tires and all truck and bus tires. November 10. Import quotas were introduced on imports of certain fixed resistors. November 24. With effect f rom November 1, tar iff quotas were reintroduced on knitted or crocheted curtains and kn i t ted or crocheted net fabrics and were intro- duced on certain sleeping bags, ra inwear ou tf i ts, unsup- ported jacke ts or coats of polyvinyl chloride film, leather clothing, woven outergarment shirts for men and boys, thong sandals, and parts for thong sandals. It was announced that tar iff quotas would be introduced on imports of certain yarns and woven fabr ics con ta in ing wool should imports over a progressive 12-monthly period exceed specified trigger levels for 3 consecutive months. December 9. Tariff quotas on a wide range of cloth- ing, footwear and textiles (see August 17 entry, above) were extended to mid-1980 and quotas were established for a broad range of goods f rom November 1, 1977. December 31. Tariff quotas on bench or pedestal dr i l l ing machines, not power driven, were term ina ted, to be replaced by bounty assistance f rom Janua ry 1, 1978. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling. Austria has notified the Fund that the rate for the Austrian schilling is S 1 = SDR 0.0423597. In practice, and without having assumed any formal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at, and have for much of the time succeeded in, observing mar- gins of 4.5 per cent either side of cross parities for the currencies participating in the European common mar- gins arrangement. On December 31, 1977, the author- ized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 15.0850 and S 15.1850, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agricul- ture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral member countries" (IMF or OECD members with which settlements take place in convertible currencies) and "multilateral non- member countries" (other countries with which settle- ments are made in convertible currencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold coins or convertible cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the conversion serves to make a current payment to a resident, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents or if the nonresident's payment serves to finance direct investment in Austria or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Balances may be freely converted into any for- eign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts, and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, when they are imported from any country other than Rhodesia.l Nearly all imports from GATT countries, their associated terri- tories, and some other countries2 are liberalized. Aus- tria's GATT liberalization is applied world-wide, except in respect of cotton textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (ba r te r ). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the proce- 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported f rom any country in the group, provided that the coun try of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argen t ina, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rma, Burund i, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Empire, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and G reen land ), Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Korea, Kuwa i t, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Maur i t ius, Netherlands, New Zealand, N icaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal, Qa tar, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Un i ted Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA dures listed above, including imports of certain textiles f rom specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regula- tions maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law governing livestock farm ing and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (V iehw i r t scha f t s- gesetz). Certain agricultural products and specified tex- tile products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with resi- dents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport and insurance. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the rema in ing transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invis- ibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital t rans fer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any time. The rema in ing payments to "multilateral nonmember coun- tries" for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or may obtain as short- term advances f rom nonresidents in multilateral coun- tries, up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant minis- 46 try or, at the time of clearance, f rom the customs authorities. Goods exported under compensation arrange- ments are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of 826,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or for- eign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Some inward capital transfers, some transactions that could lead to such inflows, and some private sector bor- rowing f rom nonresidents are at present restricted. The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities from authorized banks is permitted freely, but the acquisition of shares or participations in Austrian companies or firms, and of most Austrian real estate not intended for personal use is subject to individual approval by the National Bank. Direct investments by nonresidents normally are permitted when they serve to create or ma in ta in lasting economic relations and provided that they are financed f rom foreign currency accounts or Free Schilling Accounts, in freely convertible foreign currency, or f rom profit claims on the domestic firm concerned. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, inc lud ing those in schillings f rom Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the National Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for producing enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (these are licensed f ree ly ). The granting of permissions for commercial credits with a maturity of one to five years to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passen- ger automobiles, is restricted; import credit with a ma tur i ty customary in the trade concerned, but not exceeding one year for consumer goods, is licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of author- ized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation, but a gentleman's agreement with the National ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank provides that the domestic credit institutions are to abstain from increasing domestic l iqu id i ty by taking up fore ign currency f u n ds abroad and thus r a i s ing the ir schilling liabilities, and from calling in the ir fore ign loans prior to ma tu r i ty. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies f rom abroad for onlending abroad at maturities of up to five years. The Na t ional Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of various fore ign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Aus- trian enterprises, Aus tr ian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The t rans fer of f u n ds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonres iden ts on account of dowries, inher i- tances, and settlements under cer ta in agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may free ly grant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire par t ic ipa t ion rights in fore ign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab- lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or ind iv idua l ly owned firms; earnings accruing f rom such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one y e a r ), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert inf luence on the management of the nonresident en te rp r ise ), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad, provided that the proceeds of the credit are not used w i th in Aus tr ia (except for commer- cial c red i ts ). Domestic insurance companies may con- clude w i th non r e s id en ts l i fe i n s u r a n ce con trac ts in Austria. Transactions and operations men t ioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded w i th residents of coun- tries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents, without restriction, fore ign securities issued in ''multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges 3 and Aus tr ian securities; for foreign securi- ties and Aus t r ian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the Vienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Pay- ments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in convertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresidents 3 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a p a r t i c ip a t ing n a t u re in wha tever legal fo rm ( inc lud ing shares) that are issued by fo r e ign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever k ind wh ich assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Ind iv idual licenses are issued auto- matically when the purchase takes place on a recognized fo re ign stock exchange or when the issuing ins t i tu t ion is subject to adequa te surveillance. AUSTRIA only on a spot basis against payment in convertible cur- rencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. The pro- ceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (exc lud ing jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe l ry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Na t ional Bank is author- ized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or w i th interna- t ional financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers ( in c lud ing non res iden ts ); the prices are based on those for coins and unmanu fac tu red gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schillings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins (re- s tr ikes) to authorized credit ins t i tu t ions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemo ra t ive gold coin w i th a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any fo rm, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medal- lions; fur thermore, domestic trad ing between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition f rom resi- dents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the mone tary authorities, authorized indus- trial users, dentists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the M in is try of Trade, Com- merce, and Indus t ry to indus tr ial users, or by the cus- toms office concerned, which issues licenses automati- cally for certain gold imports w i th in its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued after con- sideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license pe rm i t t ing nonresident travelers to take out coins that 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a per- son a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multi- lateral member countries" to export such coins up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automati- cally by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1977 January 1. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 3/76 of December 16, 1976 came into effect further liberal- izing the remaining restrictions on capital inflows. Non- residents were freely permitted to purchase real estate in Austria for personal use, provided that the investment would be used for this purpose within one year. January 1. In accordance with the free trade agree- ment with the EEC, Austria reduced duties on certain textile fibers, specialty steel, unwrought a lum inum, lead, and zinc or ig ina t ing in EEC member countries other than the Un i ted Kingdom and Denmark. The new duty rates were equal to 60 per cent of the most-favored- na t ion rate of du ty applied to these goods. July 1. In accordance with the free trade arrangement with the EEC, import duties were removed from most industrial products of EEC origin. July 1. The Preference Tariff Act was amended, and preferential tariff treatment was extended to certain tropical products. October 14. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 1/77 came into effect, l i f t ing the restrictions on the pur- chase, exchange, or acceptance of Italian banknotes in denominations exceeding Lit 10,000. November 1. The temporary suspension of tariffs on imports of certain agricultural, textile, and electrical items from non-EEC and non-EFTA countries was per- mitted to expire. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Bahamian Dollar, which corresponds to B$l = US$1, and the Bahamas avails itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently w i th the Baham ian dollar. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, and only w i th com- mercial banks. It buys U.S. dollars at par and charges a commission of 0.50 per cent when selling. It buys sterling at the New York market mid-rate against the U.S. dollar and charges a commission of 0.50 per cent when selling. For transactions with the public, banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 per cent buying, and 0.75 per cent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 per cent, buying or selling, per <£ stg. 1; these charges are add i t ional to the Central Bank's charges. In addi- tion, a s tamp tax of 0.25 per cent is imposed on outward transfers; remittances f rom Freeport and remittances from bank accounts outside the Bahamas are exempt. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents through the intermediary of an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually a t trac t ing a p rem ium over the official market rate. This prem ium was 15 per cent on December 31, 1977. The Bahamas fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not dele- gated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, arms and ammun i t ion, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. The adm in is tra t ion of exchange and trade controls is not un i fo rm throughout the Baha- mas. Impor ts of indu s t r ial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency The Bahamas' exchange control system makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements w i th 1 This is foreign currency in respect of which the re is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be re ta ined and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of proper ty or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of inves tment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of fo re ign cu r rency securities and the making of direct investments outside the Bahamas. residents of foreign countries may be made in any for- eign cu r r en cy2 or in Baham ian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Baham ian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits but w i thout work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts are normally funded entirely f rom foreign cur- rency originating outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. These are held ma in ly by emi- grants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are t rans fe rab le through the official exchange market a f ter four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested in certain resident-held assets or spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or human i ta r ian reasons. All other goods may be imported w i thout a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for mak ing payments for imports, irrespective of origin; 4 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. An import surcharge ("emergency tax") of 12.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most imports. Customs entries are subject to stamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Author- ized dealers have been given authority to make payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments include freight, ships' disbursements, commissions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or profes- 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Baha- m ian dollar. 3 Na tural persons of foreign nationality who have been g ran ted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold Ex ternal Accounts. 4 Except in Grand Bahama and the Fam i ly Is lands, whe re au tho r i ty is delegated to clearing bank b ranches. this 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS sional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Baha- mian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applica- tions for foreign exchange in excess of these amoun ts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad for use on a journey or be used abroad for other purposes; any unused balance must be surrendered within one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is norma l ly given upon application to authorized dealers. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount have to be referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit up to 50 per cent of their wages and salaries which are in excess of their need in the Bahamas. Where commitments out- side the Bahamas are larger than 50 per cent of wages and salaries, however, such amoun ts may also be rem i t ted. There are no restrictions on the export of coins expressed in any currency, but in principle, the export by travelers of domestic banknotes is limited to B$70 and of foreign currency notes to the equivalent of B$ 1,000; in practice these limits are not enforced. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner satisfactory to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amoun ts due to them f rom nonresidents and to o f fer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer w i thout delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the impo rt of fo r- eign banknotes. The import of domestic bankno tes is sub- ject in principle to the approval of the Central Bank, but in practice any amount may be brought in by travelers. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Bahamas require exchange control approval and outflows of resi- dent-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any act whereby non- residents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and com- panies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to ma in ta in bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 5 Banks and trusts established in the Bahamas are exempt f rom certain exchange control regulations, pa r t icu la r ly with regard to the ir offshore operations. 50 The use of official exchange for outward direct invest- ment is limited to B$ 150,000 or 50 per cent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for invest- ments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments f rom export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the invest- ment, will at least equal the total amount of investment and continue thereaf ter. Investments in excess of B$ 150,000 must be financed by investment currency or by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to ind iv idual approval by the Central Bank. Projects which do not meet the above criteria may be financed by fore ign currency borrowing, the purchase of foreign cur- rency in the inves tment currency marke t, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Per- mission is not given for projects which are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or t rans fer of shares in a Baha- m ian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Where an investment takes the fo rm of a purchase of real prop- erty, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such per- mission is no rma l ly g ran ted, provided that a f a ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Baham ian dollars f rom an External Account or in foreign currency. For all inves tmen ts w i th approved status, permission is au toma t ica l ly given for the t rans fer of profits and d iv idends rep resen t ing earned t rad ing profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, non- resident investors are permitted to repatriate the pro- ceeds, inc lud ing any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made on ly w i th invest- ment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each fam i ly. Any incidental expenses connected w i th the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expenditures necessary to preserve the property or arising directly f rom its ownership, may with permission be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The t rans fer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Baham ian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not norma l ly given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by w i l l, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash g if ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign na t iona ls domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be eligible for a measure of exemption f rom certain exchange control obligations, notably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars f rom an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange mar- ket; interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by non- residents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to pur- chase foreign currency securities with official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; pay- ment must be made with investment currency. All pur- chases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission f rom the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.0 All fore ign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales pro- ceeds of such securities, held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency marke t; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing outside the Bahamas permanently are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules a fam i ly (or an ind iv idua l ), leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere, may transfer at the cur- rent market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of its (or his) Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. Where the total value of their Baham ian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market af ter four years or through the invest- ment currency market at any time. A f ter a person's redesignation as a nonresident, income accruing f rom his assets remaining in the Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow foreign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions with regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans through the conversion of Bahamian dol- 6 These are ten banks and trust companies and others authorized to deal in Bahamian and fo re ign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. BAHAMAS lars. Where permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally con- ditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the f u n ds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company which is wholly owned by non- residents is not normally allowed to raise working capital in Baham ian dollars unless such funds are a small pro- portion of the total investment. If the company is par t ly owned by nonresidents, approval of such local currency borrowing is determined on a basis pro rata to the non- resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas require per- mission before they make loans in domestic currency to any body corporate (other than a b a n k ), which is resi- dent in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. How- ever, companies which are set up by nonresidents pri- ma r i ly to import and distribute products m anu f a c tu r ed outside the Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Baham ian dollars f rom residents either for fixed or work- ing capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a foreign currency norma l ly are permitted on application. Generally, authorized dealers may provide credit in Baham ian dollars to nonresidents in respect of imports, where the purchase of foreign currency is duly author- ized and provided that the validity of the credit does not exceed the period of authorization. Foreign currency deposited with authorized dealers may be on-lent to non- residents for any purpose. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized deal- ers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for indus tr ial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to indus tr ial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import du ty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import du ty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry f rom all sources. A 7.5 per cent s tamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry f rom any source. There is no restriction on the acquisi- tion or retention by residents of gold coins. The Baha- mas has issued commemorative gold coins in denom ina- tions of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1977 March 31. Nonresidents with property investments in the Bahamas were requested to declare their holdings. Tax collections on such properties were also to be intensified. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.86621 grams of fine gold per Bah- ra in Dinar, corresponding to BD 0.394737 = US$1, and Bahrain avails itself of wider margins. The Bahrain Monetary Agency quotes daily rates for the U.S. dollar based on the par value and daily rates for pounds ster- ling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies.l On December 31, 1977, the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.39550 and BD 0.39580, respectively, per US$1, and those for ster- l ing were BD 0.67135 and BD 0.67385, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Monetary Agency does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rates for the cur- rencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. 2 Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control au- thority but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and ex- porters must be registered with the commercial registry ma in ta ined by the Ministry of Commerce and Agricul- ture and must be members of the Bah ra in Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are products manu fac tu red by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the A rab League. Imports of a 1 From January 26, 1978 the Bahra in d inar was pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. 2 Travelers f rom the United Arab Em ira tes and Qatar are permitted to exchange limited amoun ts of U.A.E. dirham and Qatar riyal bank- notes at fixed rates of Dh 10 = BD 1 or QR 10 = BD 1. 52 few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of cul- tured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required only for arms and amm u n i t i o n, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are in practice imported only by the Bahra in Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of per- m i t ted impor ts may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Afr ica have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodi- ties may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the pro- ceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Profits f rom foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely with the exception that under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed offshore bank ing un i ts may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents; transactions with resi- dents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs du ty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1977 October 18. The Bahrain Monetary Agency intro- duced investment bank ing licensing. Investment banks would be permitted to make loans and advances to resi- dents and nonresidents in accordance with regulations issued by the Agency, but these facilities might not take the fo rm of overdrafts. November 1. New regulations permitted the regis- tration of "exempt companies." Such companies would be exempted from the nationality provisions of Bahrain's corporate law if their business were conducted sub- stantially outside Bahrain (Decree No. 25/1977). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Bangladesh Taka has been estab- lished with the Fund. On December 31, 1977 the official exchange rate was Tk 27.625 = <£ stg. 1. The official exchange rate is subject to adjustment from time to time. The pound sterling is the intervention currency, and Bangladesh avails itself of wider margins. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is fixed within the range of Tk 15.1104-15.2580 buying, and Tk 15.1464- 15.2944 selling, per US$1. On December 31, 1977, the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 27.60 and Tk 27.65, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic trans- fers) of authorized dealers were Tk 27.5844 and Tk 27.6813, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. A different effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme. On December 31, 1977 this rate was Tk 38 per £ stg. 1. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars and sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at author- ized banks are available for export proceeds in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars and for import payments in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, as well as certain sterling payments of sh ipp ing companies and airlines. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formu la ted in consultation with the M in is try of Finance. The six for- eign and six domestic commercial banks have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized b ank s ). The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in is try of Commerce (Foreign Trade Division) is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade trans- actions are conducted through state t rad ing agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and the Bangladesh Jute Ma rke t ing Corporation. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangla- desh has bilateral payments agreements * normally must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts f rom, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bu rma, 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian monetary units through the Clearing Un ion .2' 3 As regards other countries, set- tlements normally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is proh ib i ted); they may be made (1) in takas for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bang- ladesh of the country concerned; ( 2) in the local cur- rency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in takas from a Nonresident Taka Account of a bank abroad. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the coun try in which the account holder is permanently residing.4 Specified debits and credits to nonresident accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank dur ing the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, in terna t ional nonprofit human i ta r ian organizations func t ion ing in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to ma in ta in Con- vertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with receipts of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange, and may be debited freely and at any t ime for remittances abroad in convertible currencies and for transfers to Nonconvertible Taka Accounts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. 2 However, paymen ts made in the context of the Bangladesh- Pak is tan trade agreement are required to be in convertible foreign exchange outside the Asian Clearing Un ion Ag reemen t. 3 The Bangladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Clearing Union and the member countries' currencies twice a mon th. For each period such rates remain unchanged unless otherwise no t if ied. 4 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies, however, are trea ted as resident accounts. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nation- als and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in con- vertible currencies received from abroad through normal bank ing channels; (2) proceeds of convertible curren- cies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on a temporary visit to Bangladesh, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payments for imports of specified goods; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected w i th the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness or private purposes by the account holder or his nominee authorized to operate the account up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 100 if they are t rave l ing to Bu rma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri L ank a, and up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 300 if they are t rave l ing to other countries. The number of trips to the group of neigh- boring countries mentioned above is restricted to once a year, whereas there is no restriction on the numb er of trips to other countries. Nonresident accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either f rom Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and bar ter arrange- ments. Imports financed f rom Bangladesh's own resources are licensed within the framework of a semi- annual import policy (import budge t ). Under the import policy for the shipping period July-December 1977, items permissible for import were classified into four broad categories: ( 1) goods permitted to be imported by "commercial importers," including the TCB; (2) raw materials and packing materials per- mitted to be imported by "industrial units" recognized as such under an entitlement system; (3) items per- mitted to be imported exclusively by the TCB and /or jointly by the TCB and private sector impor ters; and (4) items that could be imported under the Wage Earn- ers' Scheme against payment abroad or f rom Foreign Currency Accounts. No provision was made for com- mercial imports of any other goods, whose importation, therefore, was de facto prohibited unless financed by foreign aid. Imports from Israel, Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single coun try licenses are 54 issued for imports under bilateral t rade or payments arrangements and for most aid impor ts. Other import licenses are valid world-wide, except for Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r ica. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued to commercial importers rema in valid for 9 months and 6 months, respectively, f rom the da te of issuance. Licenses issued to industrial consumers are valid for 12 months. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire, are not normally revalidated except where, ow ing to c ircums tances beyond the con- trol of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping a r rangemen ts could not be made. Irrevocable letters of credit must be opened within four mon ths f rom the date of issuance of licenses, except for books and periodicals, which may be imported on a consignment basis. Many imports are reserved for the TCB, inc lud ing certain chemical and metal products, cement, sugar, certain cotton textiles, and woolen fabrics. In add i t ion, the impor ta t ion of a number of items is reserved exclusively to other public sector agencies; these include airplane parts, fire engines, coal and coke, c inema tograph ic films, certain cotton textiles, edible oil, fe r t i l ize rs, insecticides, and wood and timber. There are limited facilities outside the import program for m inor imports by specified end users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of impor ts of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an en t i t lement system, based on the require- men ts for various industries during each "shipping" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the en t i t lemen t. Separately, indus t r ial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to indus t r ial consumers must be used in the industry con- cerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encourag ing indus tr ial exports, industries engaged in export business (other than ju te, ju te goods, or tea ), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw ma ter ial requirements, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed w i th in six months of the realization of the export proceeds. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. No foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are con- sidered on an individual basis; as a rule, for business travel the amount granted is US$50 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 a calendar year for exporters whose total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk2.5 million or above and a maximum of US$1,500 for those whose export earnings were less than Tk 2.5 million; for medical treatment the amount granted is about <£ stg. 400. The holder of a Foreign Currency Account or his nominee authorized to operate the account are allowed to use the balance in the account for travel purposes, subject to a certain limit (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for fam i ly maintenance pur- poses; such approval is usually granted for 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a max imum of <£ stg. 200 a month (net of tax) if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 250 into convertible foreign currencies. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh nationals may take out Tk20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment, and those f rom exports of perishable goods to India within two months of ship- ment. Additional import licenses are issued to certain export industries based on their export performance. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain the countervalue of certain foreign exchange in Foreign Currency Accounts. All Bangladesh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any fo re ign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earnings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered, w i th in BANGLADESH one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 20 is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, other than foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank. There is no restriction on the importation of securi- ties into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by persons resident in Bangla- desh or outside Bangladesh, and to all foreign securities held by persons resident in Bangladesh. Approval is given if securities are returned to Bangladesh within a specified period or, if they are sold, if the proceeds are repatriated. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, provided that they are obtained only in the currency of the coun- try or monetary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing abroad by resi- dent nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is prohibited. B o r r o w i ng by n o n r e s i d e n t - ow n ed or n o n r e s i d e n t- controlled enterprises f rom commercial banks in Bangla- desh, as well as from abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized dealers may however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to com- panies controlled by persons resident outside Bangla- desh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any long-term loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or con- tinue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign firms with branches in Bangladesh are required to submit state- ments of their foreign exchange earnings as of the end of each quarter of the year. Under the Industrial Invest- ment Policy, foreign private investment is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepreneurs. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is limited to those industries where techni- cal know-how is not locally available; where the tech- nology involved is very complicated; or where capital 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH outlay is high; and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, the foreign investors generally are required to provide the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component as equity capital. The ceil- ing on private investment is Tk 100 million. Tax holi- days are granted for periods of up to seven years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted net of tax. Also remittable are 50 per cent of the net salary of foreign nationals, up to a maximum of £ stg. 200 a month a person, and sav- ings f rom earnings, retirement benefits, and personal assets on termination of service or retirement. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the inter- nal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver orna- ments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1977 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Egypt having expired on December 31, 1976, settle- ments with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The import program for the shipping period January-June 1977 was announced. Foreign exchange allocations for cash imports were increased by 20 per cent, entitlements of industrial importers based on their past export performance were expanded, and procedures for import licensing were fur ther simplified and streamlined. January 4. A trade and payments agreement was con- cluded with the People's Republic of China providing for exchange of goods on a self-balancing basis. Under the agreement, which is valid for two years, transactions would be settled through "special U.S. dollar" accounts opened with designated banks. During the first year of the agreement, the commodities to be exported f rom Bangladesh to the People's Republic of China would include raw ju te and ju te goods, leather, hides and skins, rayon, and paper and paper products, and the commodi- ties to be exported from the People's Republic of China to Bangladesh would include metals, minerals, cement, chemicals, textiles, tools, machinery, and spare parts. January 10. The eligibility to ma in ta in convertible taka accounts with authorized banks was extended to foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh, regardless of their status. January 18. The exchange rates for pounds sterling at which the Bangladesh Bank would deal w i th authorized banks were set as follows: spot buying, Tk 26.65 = 56 £ stg. 1; spot selling, Tk 26.75 = £ stg. 1; forward buy ing (up to six mon ths), Tk 26.65 = £ stg. 1; and forward selling (up to six months), Tk 26.85 = £ stg. 1. Subsequently, these rates were changed on three occa- sions, on October 15, November 9, and December 9. Af ter the last of these changes, the spot buying and selling rates were Tk 27.60 = £ stg. 1 and Tk 27.65 = <£ stg. 1, respectively. The forward buy ing and se l l ing rates (up to six months) were Tk 27.60 = £ stg. 1 and Tk 27.7536 = £ stg. 1, respectively. February 3. A barter trade agreement covering a wide range of commodities was signed w i th Roman ia. The agreement was to remain valid un t il October 31, 1977. March 2. In order to facilitate settlement of export claims, authorized dealers were permitted to effect settle- ments of such claims from a foreign currency account maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme, if the Bangladesh exporter so requested. March 8. Authorized banks were accorded general permission to remit abroad dividends, profits, royalties, and technical fees on behalf of fore ign companies with- out prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. April 19. Exports of certain types of raw ju te were banned or made subject to export entitlement quotas. May 9. Export restrictions on jute cuttings, intro- duced on April 19, were withdrawn. May 11. Authorized banks were permitted to release, without prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank, foreign exchange up to the equivalent of £ stg. 25 f rom For- eign Currency Accounts maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme to Bangladesh na t iona ls traveling to Burma, India, Nepal, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka for private purposes. June 20. A barter trade agreement w i th Hungary covering a wide range of commodities and valid un t il June 30, 1978 was signed. July 1. The import program for the July-December 1977 shipping period was announced. Open general licenses were introduced for certain imports comprising mainly essential industrial materials. All registered com- mercial and industrial importers were made eligible to apply for import licenses for any of the items placed on the open general license list up to the monetary ceiling specified for each item. July 7. A barter trade agreement, valid un t il June 30, 1978, was signed with the German Democratic Republic. August 12. A barter trade agreement, valid for one year, was signed with Nor th Korea. August 13. The foreign exchange allowance for pil- grims traveling to Mecca in 1977 was set at the equiva- lent of Tk 9,300 (excluding the cost of passage by air or sea). September 1. It was announced in FE C ircu lar No. 108 that w i th effect from August 26, the six-month for- ward exchange rate for the U.S. dollar would be applied to proceeds f rom exports of raw j u te under barter t rade agreemen ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 5. The Bangladesh Bank announced that it would purchase deutsche mark and Japanese yen three- month and six-month forward from authorized banks. The buying rates were to be determined on the basis of the Bank's spot buying rate for the pound sterling and the rates for deutsche mark and Japanese yen on the preceding day in the London market. September 21. A barter trade agreement was signed with Czechoslovakia. The agreement, valid for one year, came into force on September 30. September 24. A barter trade agreement, valid for one year, was signed with Poland. October 18. A Wage Earners' Fund Disposal Com- mittee was set up to better utilize the funds remitted by Bangladesh wage earners abroad and bought by im- porters of goods under the Wage Earners' Scheme. With effect from November 1, the Committee was to conduct auction sales of such funds every working day (except Friday). November 17. The Bangladesh Bank fixed lowest and highest exchange rates of the taka for the U.S. dollar, both spot and forward. The spot selling rates were Tk 15.1464 (lowest) and Tk 15.2944 (highest) per US$1. Actual transactions were to be carried out in accordance with exchange rates published by the Exchange Rates Committee within the above limits. BANGLADESH Dealers were prohibited from conducting arbitrage operations between pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. December 6. Authorized banks were allowed to release foreign exchange from Foreign Currency Accounts, maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme, for travel by persons other than the account holder as follows: (1) for travelers proceeding to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, up to £ stg. 100 or the equivalent in U.S. dollars, once only in a calendar year; (2) for travelers proceeding to countries other than those mentioned above, up to <£ stg. 300 or the equivalent in U.S. dollars, without limit on the number of trips taken. December 17. Certain remittances received by Bang- ladesh nationals could be credited to Foreign Currency Accounts maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme, as follows: (1) remittances received by writers and authors; (2) remittances received for research work and special studies conducted on behalf of foreign organiza- tions; (3) remittances received f rom foreign organiza- tions and firms for consultant work; (4) the unutilized portion of foreign exchange withdrawn from Foreign Currency Accounts for travel purposes which had been brought into Bangladesh and declared on an appropriate form; and (5) the savings of trainees or students from foreign scholarships. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Barbados Dollar. A central rate of BDS$2 = US$1 has been established, and Barbados avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Barbados buys and sells deutsche ma rk, Canad ian dollars, pounds s te r l ing and U.S. dollars. The rates include comm is ion charges of 0.125 per cent buy ing, and 1.25 per cent selling, for the U.S. dollar and commission charges of 0.1875 per cent buy- ing, and 1.375 per cent selling, for deutsche ma rk, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. Under the Mu l t i- lateral Clearing Facility of the Caribbean Common Market ( CAR ICOM ) ,* the Central Bank sells but does not purchase Belize dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Guy ana dollars, Jama ica dollars, and Tr in idad and Tobago dol- lars, at fixed rates inc lud ing a se l l ing commission of 0.125 per cent. The Central Bank regulates the commission which may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings w i th their customers in Belize dollars, deutsche ma rk, East Caribbean dollars, Guy ana dollars, Jama ica dollars, pounds sterling, Tr in idad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars; the commission on dealings by the commercial banks in nonreg ional currencies was increased by 0.5 per cent in August 1977. On December 31, 1977, the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0150, respectively, per US$1; those for sterling were BDS$3.8168 and BDS$3.8766, respec- tively, per <£ stg. 1; and those for the deutsche ma rk were BDS$0.9499 and BDS$0.9648, respectively, per DM 1. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Cen tral Bank delegates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve normal import paymen ts and the allocation of fo re ign exchange for certain other current paymen ts and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that fore ign exchange should no rma l ly be surrendered to an au thor- ized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transac t ions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South A f r ica. Trade controls are administered by the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re, Food, and Consumer Affairs. Under the Multilateral Clearing Arrangemen ts, the Central Bank of Barbados purchases f r om the com- mercial banks currency notes issued by the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago and the East Caribbean 1 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts-Nev is-Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 58 Currency Au thor i ty and repatriates them in re turn for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Barbados notes. The rate applied mu tua l ly for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined through the U.S. dollar. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than Rhodesia or South A f r ica may be made in any fo re ign currency,2 or through an Ex- ternal Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados do l lars), or in the currency of the CARICOM coun t ry concerned, except that commercial banks may issue travelers checks de- nom ina ted in U.S. dollars to Barbadian residents travel- ing to other CARICOM countries, w i th in the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of other countries.8 Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are maintained in fore ign currencies, is given on the basis of the antici- pated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the conditions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require ind iv idual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dol- lars. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies, w i th transfers f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Ac- counts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and w i th payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payments covered by delegated au thor i ty to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdraf ts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be w i thdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 3 Residents of Barbados are also permitted to ma in ta in such accounts u n d er similar conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited and certain imports originating in the People's Republic of China, the CMEA coun tr ies, No r th Korea, Japan, and Portugal require ind iv idual licenses. Certain imports are prohibited; these include various food s tu f fs and beer not produced w i th in the CARICOM area. M any other commodities require ind iv idual licenses; these include passenger automobiles, bicycles, buses, ciga- rettes, cosmetics, certain petroleum products, refr igera- tors, sewing machines, and certain textiles. Ind iv idual licenses are also required for imports of commod i t ies subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Ag reement between the Governmen ts of Barbados, Dom in ica, Gre- nada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and T r in idad and Tobago, whether the goods are be ing impor ted f rom CARICOM countries or f rom elsewhere. Special l icens ing arrangements have been made for the regu la t ion of trade between Barbados and other CAR ICOM coun t r ies in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen ta ry evidence (invoices and customs w a r r an t s) to au thor ized dealers. Advance paymen ts for imports requ ire prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ i re exchange control ap- proval. Except for t ransac t ions invo lv ing residents of Rhodesia and South A f r ica, payments for all commerc ial transactions are perm i t ted free ly when the app l ica t ion is supported by appropriate do cum en t a ry ev idence. Authority has been delegated to au thor ized dealers to provide basic allocations of fo re ign exchange for cer ta in payments of a personal na tu re and for s u n d ry paymen ts. These include fore ign t ravel ( f or wh ich up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for p r iva te travel and up to BDS$4,500 a person a ca lendar year for business t r a v e l ), expenses of educa t ion abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a y e a r ), subscriptions to news- papers and magazines, income tax re fund s, o f f ic ial pay- ments, and l ife insurance premiums. With the exception of tourism, applications for add i t ional amoun ts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unau tho r- ized transfer of capital seems to be invo lved. Applica- tions in respect of tourism in excess of BDS$ 1,500 a person are considered on their mer i ts. The cost of transportation to any des t ina t ion may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Residents trave l ing to any destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not perm i t ted to take out any Barbados currency but may free ly export any fo re ign currency they had previously brought in. BARBADOS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of cer ta in goods to any coun t ry; these goods include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing mach ines, portland cement, and petroleum prod- ucts. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Cen tral Bank to ensure that proceeds in fore ign curren- cies are surrendered w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of sh ipmen t. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may b r ing in f ree ly notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any fore ign currency. Res ident travelers are required to sell their holdings of fo re ign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re tu rn to Barbados. Capital All ou tward cap i tal t rans fe rs, inc lud ing direct invest- men ts by residents and the purchase by residents of fore ign currency securities and of real estate situated ab road, requ i re exchange control approval. Certificates of t i t le to fore ign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an au thor ized depository in Bar- bados and earn ings on these securities must be repa tr i- ated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital t rans fe rs, such as inher i tances due to nonresidents, requ i re exchange con trol app rova l. Trans- fers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 a n n u a l ly for each non res ident bene f ic ia ry, sub ject to the payment of estate du t ies. Dowries in the f o rm of se t t lemen ts, and cash g i f ts may be t ran s fe r red to non re s iden ts with exchange control approval, nor- m a l ly up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Em ig ra t ing Bar- bad ian na t iona ls are granted settling-in allowances f rom the ir declared assets at the ra te of BDS$20,000 a f am i ly u n it a year. The Central Bank also considers applica- tions f rom fore ign na t iona ls who have resided in Bar- bados and are proceeding to take up pe rmanent residence ab road, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct inves tment in Barbados by nonres iden ts may be made w i th exchange control approval. The rem i t tance of ea rn ings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds f r om, such inves tment is perm i t ted, subject to the submission of documen ta ry evidence as to the accuracy of the amount to be rem i t ted, to the discharge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the investment, and to the reg is tra t ion of the original investment w i th the Central Bank. The issuance and t rans fer to nonres iden ts of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequa te amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds f rom the rea l iza t ion of these securi- ties may be remitted when it is established that the 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Bar- bados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordi- narily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of re turn on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immed i- ately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and non- trade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits f rom nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by author- ized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A gold coin with a face value of BDS$100 is legal tender and is in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for num isma t ic pur- poses. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer A f f a i r s; no license is required to export gold but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1977 February 25. It was announced that import licenses would no longer be required for portland cement. March 31. Import licenses were required for root crops including yams, sweet potatoes, eddoes, dasheens, tannias, and cassava. April 17. Imports of passenger automobiles were temporarily banned. June 2. Import licenses were required for soft drinks and mineral waters but the license requirement was lifted from television receivers. June 16. Import licenses were required for various food items including pork and fish products and con- fectionery. Licenses were also required for costume jewelry, motorcycles, and bicycles. June 30. Consumption taxes were applied to a broad range of imported goods. June 30. The motor vehicle tax was raised to 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value. July 1. Quantitative restrictions or import prohibi- tions were imposed on 14 food items. July 11. Import licenses were required for various prepared foods and for pet foods. July 14. Import licenses were no longer required for tea or potatoes. August 2. The limit on settling-in allowances was reduced f rom BDS$24,000 to BDS$20,000 a fam i ly un it a year and remittances in respect of inheritances were restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each beneficiary. August 3. The Central Bank directed the commercial banks to restrict commercial bank credit for foreign travel. August 4. The Central Bank increased the rate of commission on sales of nonregional currencies by 0.5 per cent. August 10. Commercial banks were authorized to issue travelers checks denominated in U.S. dollars to residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. September 8. Import licenses were required for retreaded tires. September 15. Import licenses were required for wallets, briefcases, purses, etc., made of materials other than leather. September 23. Temporary import prohibitions ( for the remainder of 1977) were announced for passenger automobiles, motorcycles, cigarettes, chewing gum, her- ring, mackerel, and salmon. Also, licenses would not be issued for imports from nonregional sources of orange juice, chocolate, yams, canned f ru i t, shampoo, and f ru it wines. Quantitative restrictions were imposed on imports of apples, cosmetics, and costume jewelry. November 7. Import licenses were required for instant mashed potatoes as well as for women's skirts (kn i t ted or other). 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg have established central rates of BF/Lux F 48.6572 = SDR 1, and avail themselves of wider margins. There are two spot exchange markets— the official (reglemente or regulated) and the free; these markets are separated and foreign currency acquired in one may not be sold in the other. Most current transac- tions are settled in the official market and most capital transactions in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 Belgium-Luxembourg ma in ta ins a max imum margin of 2.25 per cent for exchange rates in the official market between the Belgian f ranc /Luxembou rg f r anc and the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Nether- lands guilder, and the Norweigan krone. No announced margins are ma in ta ined for any other currency. On December 30, 1977, the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 32.865 and BF 33.015, respectively, per US$1. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. For all inward and outward payments in excess of BF 10 mil- lion through that market, supporting documents must be submitted to the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Ins t i tu te (Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange market, all currencies ( in c lud ing domestic and foreign bankno tes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 30, 1977 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 33.05 buying, and BF 33.10 selling, per US$1. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies; however, there are special regulations for the zaire. The external position of authorized banks in the official mar- ket is subject to control; a ceiling has been imposed on the net spot creditor and debtor position in foreign cur- rencies, and the overall foreign currency position (spot and forward combined) should normally be close to balance and must not register a substantial creditor or debtor position. 1 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. A l though Za i r ian currency (the za i re) is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements w i th coun- tries other than Zai're, or the exchange of the zaire for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. The Aus t ra l ian dollar, the Irish pound, and the South African rand, although traded in the official market, are not officially quoted. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery (on the delivery date itself if the ma tu r i ty of the forward contract is less than 15 days ); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting f rom forward con- tracts not covering authorized inward or outward pay- ments through the official market must be surrendered to the Treasury. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in any currency in the free market. Forward transactions in the free market, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transaction. There is normally no intervention in either forward exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg forma l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union —BLEU ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the adm in is tra t ion of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935 (revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of Janua ry 29, 1963 and w i th effect from May 1, 1972 by a Protocol of October 27, 1971) conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Adm in is t ra t ive Commission the au thor i ty to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate m a in ly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG b i l a t e r al coun t r i es - and the c o n v e r t i b le a rea ( a ll o ther c o u n t r i e s ). A ll inw a rd and ou twa rd t r a n s a c t i o ns a re c lass if ied in f o ur groups, wh ich may be summ a r i z ed as f o l l ow s: List A covers me rchand ise, t ran spo rt expenses, i n d u s t r i al expenses (e.g., costs of p rocess ing ), and o ther comm e r c i al expenses, i n c l u d i ng in su rance; List B covers se t t lemen ts of travel f irms, sa lar ies, pens ions, fees, sub sc r ip t ion s, taxes, and pub l ic adm in i s t r a t ion p aym en t s; List C covers (1) a dm i n i s t r a t i on expenses, (2) income on secu r i t ies, loans, etc., ren ts, and ope ra t ing p ro f i ts, and (3) repa- t r i a t i on of ce r ta in fo r e ign long- term inve s tmen ts and t r a n s f e rs by em ig ran ts of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i t y; List D covers g i f t s, l i fe in su rance paymen ts, f am i ly m a in t e- nance paymen ts, cap i tal inves tmen ts, l iqu ida t ion of invest- men ts, dea l ings in gold, t ran s fe rs by em ig ran ts of Be lg ian or Luxembou rg na t iona l i ty, t rans fe rs by imm igran ts, inhe r i tance s, fo rwa rd covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled th rough travel agen- c i e s ), and all t r a n s a c t i o ns not in any of the other three lists. The perm iss ib le methods of se t t lement for fore ign pay- men ts are summa r ized in the fo l low ing table. In add i t ion to the general methods of settlement described above, ind iv idu al licenses are granted in order to a l low t r an s f e rs th rough the off ic ial market for some of the t r an s a c t ions men t ioned in List D. These cover essen- t i a l ly d i rect inves tment by enterprises and some capital t r a n s f e rs by ind iv idu a l s. Paymen ts for goods of Egyp t ian or ig in (other than rice, raw co t ton, and crude pe t ro leum) are subject to special rules. SUMMARY OF PERM ISS IBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FORE IGN PAYMENTS TRANSACT ION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FORE IGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET A, B C D Outward Payments Conver t ib le Conver t ib le O f f ic ial Conve r t ib le Conver t ib le A ny Any Off ic ial or f ree Free A, B, C, D B i la te ral NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial F inanc ial Bilateral * A, B C D A, B C D Inward Payments Conve r t ib le Conver t ib le O f f ic ial Convertible Conve r t ib le Conver t ib le Other O f f ic ial or f ree Free | Convertible j or Financial Convertible Any Free B i l a t e r al Convertible Off ic ial F inanc ial B i la te ral or Convertible * B i la teral B i la teral Convertible Other Any Official or free Free } B i la te ral or j Convertible * Free B i la te ral * * B i la te ral A c count of the c o u n t ry conce rned. Se t t lemen ts w i th Z a i re may a l te rna t ive ly be made by debit or c red it to Conve r t ib le A c coun ts in za'ires held w i th b a n ks in Za i re. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembou rg f r a nc accoun ts of nonres i- dents are c lass if ied as fo l low s: 1. Convertible Accounts. Ba lances on these accoun ts 2 The b i l a t e r al g r o up c o u n t r i es a re B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and Z a i r e. The BLEU is not a p a r ty, howeve r, to any b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag ree- men ts. are equ iva lent to currencies negotiated on the official ma rke t, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonres iden t .3 They are not related to any coun- 3 International organizations and fo re ign diplomatic rep resen ta t ions established in the BLEU ma in ta in Special Accoun ts, which are equiva- lent to Conve r t ib le Accoun ts but are not subject to the res tr ic t ions app l icab le to the la t te r. Foreign employees of the o rgan iza t ions and rep re sen ta t ions men t ioned may ma in ta in Special Convertible Accounts. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — try or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market, and for re transfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds f rom the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial ma rket to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be t rans fe r red f ree ly to other Convertible Accounts or be converted in to any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub ject to authorization by the IBLC. Convertible Accounts may be held in the fo rm of sight accounts (demand depos i ts), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.4 They may be used f ree ly for se t t lemen ts wh ich e i ther mu st or may be made through the free ma rket and for r e t r an s f er abroad through the free ma rke t, and they may be credited freely w i th proceeds f rom the sale by a non- resident of gold or any currency in the f ree ma rke t. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited w i th authorized banks by fore ign travelers in Be lg ium-Luxem- bourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers between F inan- cial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any cu r rency nego t ia ted in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of b i la teral countries (see foo tno te 2 ), and they are related to the coun t ry of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements w i th bilateral countries, and may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of conver t ib le currenc ies by a non res ident in the off ic ial ma rke t. Balances on B i la teral Accoun ts may be t rans fe r red to other B i la te ral Accounts related to the same coun try. Transfers may also be made f ree ly between Bilateral Accounts related to B u r u n d i, Rw a n d a, and Zaire. In practice, the au thor i t ies perm it the con- version of balances on B i la teral Accounts of the cen t ral banks of these three coun t r ies i n to fo re ign currenc ies in the official marke t. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian or ig in are prohibited. Ind i- v idual licenses a re required for ( 1) a ll impo r ts f r om Albania, Bu lgar ia, the People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Czechoslovakia, the Ge rman Democra t ic Repub l ic, Hong Kong, Hunga ry, Japan, No r th Korea, Mongo l ia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet N am ,5 and 4 Foreign diplomats, fore ign na t iona ls employed by d ip lom a t ic rep- resentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified i n t e r n a t i o n al organizations situated in the BLEU, ind iv idu a ls re s id ing in B u r u n d i, Rwanda, or Za i re, and BLEU na t iona ls re s id ing abroad t em p o r a r i ly for professional reasons are au tho r ized to m a i n t a in A s s im i l a t ed Resi- dent Accounts. 5 Import licenses are issued f r e e ly for a la rge n um b er of commod i- ties when originating in and shipped f r om B u l g a r i a, Czecho s lovak ia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Po land, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG ( 2) a number of imports f rom all other countries except Luxembourg/5 The commod i t ies for which ind iv idual licenses are required inc lude m any tex t i le products, cer- tain agr icu l tural products and foods tuffs, coal and petroleum products, and d iamonds. All other commod i- ties are free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; the sole requ i rement is a fo rm completed by the impor ter g iv ing no t if ica t ion of the payment (payment declara- t i o n ), wh ich must be presented to an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to ind iv idu al l icens ing are also adm i t ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. A long w i th other EEC coun tr ies, the BLEU applies to non-EEC coun tr ies quotas on a numb er of tex t i le produc ts and on Greek wine .7 Imports f rom non-EEC coun t r ies of most products covered by the Common Ag r i cu l tu r al Policy of the EEC are subject to impo rt levies wh ich have replaced all pre- v ious ba r r ie rs to impo r ts; common EEC regu la t ions are also applied to impor ts f rom non-EEC coun tr ies of most other ag r icu l tu ral and livestock products. No exchange control documen ta t ion is required for impo r ts not exceeding BF 50,000 in va lue. The au tho r- ized bank is required to m ake cer ta in that payment is made by one of the methods la id down in the regu la t ions (see section on Prescription of Cu r rency, above) and that fo re ign exchange is not acqu ired u n t il the import payment is due; for all paymen ts in excess of BF 50,000 the bank mu st requ i re documen ta ry proof of the due date. Exchange control app roval is also requ i red for p aym en ts for impo r ts more th an th ree mon ths before or s ix mon ths a f t er the date of cus toms c learance; p r ior e x am i n a t i on of suppo r t ing documen ts by the IBLC is required for paymen ts exceed ing BF 10 m i l l ion and for paymen ts more t h an 30 days before the date of cus toms c lea rance, except, in the la t ter case, if payment takes place e i ther und er a do cum en t a ry c red it or on a docu- m e n t a ry co l lec t ion basis, provided that documen ts a re subm i t ted to the au thor ized bank show ing that the goods have a l ready been shipped to the BLEU. Paymen ts for t r a n s it t r an s a c t ions must be made not la ter than three mon ths f rom the da te of any advance p a ym e nt collected f rom the fo re ign buye r, and may not be made ea r l ier than three mon ths be fo re the da te on wh i ch such pay- m ent is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts to conver t ib le area coun t r i es for t ran sac- t i o ns inc luded in Lists A and B mu st be made th rough the o f f ic ial exchange m a rk et or by c r ed i t ing Be lg ian or Luxembou rg f r an cs to a Conve r t ib le A c coun t. Support- ing documen ts must be presented to an au tho r ized b ank for all paymen ts in excess of BF 50,000; for paymen ts exceed ing BF 10 m i l l ion and in other excep t ional cases, pr ior e x am i n a t i on of the s u p p o r t i ng do cum en ts by the 0 Most impo r ts in the la t ter g r o up do not r e q u i re an im p o rt license wh en im p o r t ed f r om the N e t h e r l a n ds or f r om o th er EEC coun t r ie s. 7 W i th e f f e ct f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1978 the BLEU, a long w i th o th er EEC coun t r ie s, in s t i tu t ed a sys tem of m i n im um im p o rt p r ices for fo r e ign steel p rodu c t s. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area coun- tries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alterna- tively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bankno te s ); payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; pay- ments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convertible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited in accordance w i th the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council. Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries except Luxembourg.8 All other exports are free of license; only a form completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export is required. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 50,000 in value. The au thor- ized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months af ter the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t) within eight days of receipt, or, a l terna t ive ly, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior au thor iza t ion by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected w i th in three months f rom the date of pay- ment to the foreign supplier. Prior exam ina t ion of sup- porting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies f rom invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B — see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t) within eight days of receipt, or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. Prior exam ina t ion of sup- 8 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 64 porting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free marke t. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds f rom transactions included in Lists C and D may also be col- lected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions w i th convertible area countries may be carried out free ly through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital t rans fe rs by individuals, inc lud ing g i f ts, f am i ly m a in t en an ce paymen ts, remittances by em ig ran ts of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial nature, may also be made through the official marke t, subject to ind iv idual license. The exchange control au thor i t ies may guarantee the repa tr ia t ion of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the off ic ial ma rket (und er special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repa tr ia ted through that market. Also eligible for ou tward t ran s fer through the official market are the amo r t iza t ion and redemption proceeds of bonds denom ina ted in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the ma tu r i ty date. All t ransac t ions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial set- tlement of such t ransac t ions must con fo rm to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the M in is ter of F inance is required for issues of secu- rities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents; most of the Belgian f r a nc bond issues on the domestic capital market have in practice been made by inter- national organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not norma l ly per- mitted. The Luxembourg authorities f rom time to time have permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxem- bourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies or indi- v idua ls for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Outward paymen ts for cap i tal transac t ions w i th bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires; inwa rd pay- ments for capital transactions w i th bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market, or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and non- residents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may only be made through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or for- eign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for industrial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who have to make payment through the official market. Transactions in monetary gold are exempt f rom value-added tax in Belgium but not in Luxembourg.9 Changes during 1977 February 1. The Irish pound was introduced on the official market. February 4. Along with the other EEC member coun- tries, Belgium introduced a 20 per cent anti-dumping duty on ball bearings from Japan. April 1. The protective clause which had been applied since July 1974 to EEC imports of beef and veal f rom nonmember countries was removed. April 29. New arrangements for imports of Greek wine into the EEC were agreed upon by the EEC and 9 Transactions in monetary gold were exempted f rom value-added tax in Luxembourg from January 1, 1978. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG the Greek authorities. These would remain in force until a complete import regime could be introduced. The transitional arrangements, to remain in effect until December 31, provided for the opening of a quota of 180,000 hectoliters for the Benelux countries and a ta r i ff reduction of 85 per cent. May 5. Belgium and Luxembourg imposed a quota on ju te imports from Thailand, to remain in effect until December 31. July 26. The 20 per cent provisional anti-dumping duty on EEC imports of ball bearings from Japan was replaced by a permanent duty of 15 per cent which, however, was immediately suspended. August 1. Along with other EEC countries, Belgium and Luxembourg adopted a fur ther series of restrictions on imports of textiles from Mediterranean and Far East- ern countries. In addition to the quotas on T-shirts and cotton yarn, the new products affected were jerseys, men's suits, dresses, shirts, cotton fabrics, and trousers, particularly from Egypt, India, Macao, Morocco, Singa- pore, and Tunisia. December 1. Until fu r ther notice, import and export licenses for diamonds were to be issued without a prior- ity certificate, and the Diamond Office was no longer required to send a "payment declaration" to banks. Pay- ments for imports and exports of diamonds, and all pay- ments of charges connected w i th diamond transactions, such as the costs of shipping, insurance, commissions, and working on customers' own stones, were to be made or received through the free market (alternatively, by crediting or debiting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to or from a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes). 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par va lue or cen tral ra te for the currency of Benin has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc,1 which is o f f ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the ra te of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French f rancs, the in terven t ion currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commerc ial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a com- mission of 0.10 per mill on t ran s fe rs f rom countries outside the West A f r i c an Mone tary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill on t rans fe rs to such countries.2 Exchange rates for fore ign currencies are based on the fixed ra te for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange m a rk et ra te for the currency concerned, and inc lude a commission. Banks levy a commission on t r an s f e rs to all countries outside the West A f r ican Mone ta ry Un ion, part of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Ben in's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Ope ra t ions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made f ree ly. All other countries, except Benin itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations on ly with fore ign coun tr ies are sub ject to exchange control. For purposes of cer ta in capital controls, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered fore ign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism, wh ich also supervises borrow ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f f e r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Ben in, inward direct inves tmen t, all invest- ment in fore ign coun tr ies, and the solicitation of f u n ds in Benin for placement in fore ign countries. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the ma in respons ib i l i ty for draw- ing up the exchange control regu la t ions. The BCEAO is authorized to collect (either direct or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and notaries pub l ic) any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are 1 The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 for each t rans fe r. 66 issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. Ex- ports of d iamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Ben in is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French f ranc s, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Settlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, Liberia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non- resident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, ex- cept for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by authorized banks' foreign corre- sponden ts for credit to the Foreign Accounts in Francs opened for the la t ter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped f rom Portugal, Rhodes ia, or South Africa are prohibited. Certain im- ports, such as narcotics, are prohibited f rom all sources. The Societe Na t iona le d'Importation du Benin (SON IB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and khaki cloth. Certain other agencies, such as the Societe Beninoise pour le Developpement des Ressources An ima les (SODERA ), have an import mo- nopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Impor ts of all other goods originating in EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods requ ire a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in OECD coun- tries other than Japan and only require an import cer- tificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of 3 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hunga ry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD coun- tries, all imports or ig ina t ing in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program. Under this program, a global quo ta is established for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or one mon th before the payment is due if the commodities have al- ready been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as de- fined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for m any types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion have been empowered to make paymen ts abroad free ly on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Paymen ts for invisibles related to t rade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not requ ire au tho r iza t ion. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also pe rm i t ted. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to coun tr ies other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of t r ips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 r em a in ing a f ter re tu rn to Ben in must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allo- cation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The t rans fer of the entire net salary of a fore igner working in Benin is perm i t ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t r a n s f er takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Travelers going to fore ign coun tr ies may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes issued by other Opera- tions Account coun tr ies. Resident trave lers to other coun tr ies of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if going to a coun try that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union, they mu st declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. BENIN Nonresident travelers may take out any unu t i l ized fore ign bankno tes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, subject to ad jus tment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of fore ign currency. Nonres ident trave lers may take out free ly the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bankno tes, and banknotes issued by the Operations Account countries; the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign bankno tes; and any amount in other fore ign means of payment ( trave lers checks, e tc .) established abroad in their names. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to all fo re ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Exports to all coun tr ies are free of license, except those of gold and d iamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date for paymen ts for exports to fore ign countries cannot be later than 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at the ir desti- na t ion. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is denom ina ted in a non-Franc Area currency, sold on the exchange marke t, w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the hold- ing, sale, impor t, export, or t rad ing of raw d iamonds and of precious and semiprecious ma ter ia ls. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f r om fore ign assets, must be collected and su r rende red. Re s ident and nonres ident travelers may br ing in any amount of b ank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coins (except gold co ins) of coun tr ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area; residents b r ing ing in fo re ign bank- notes and fo re ign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon en try and sell them to an au thor ized bank w i t h in eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Ben in and Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital move- ments between Ben in and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are f r ee of exchange control; capital t r an s f e rs to all other coun- tries requ ire exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun t r ies are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct in- vestment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance in Benin has previously been authorized. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin 5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain condi- * Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 8 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 68 tions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not consti- tu t ing a direct investment requires the special authoriza- tion of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus- try, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, du r ing a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product, and f rom cer- ta in other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises unde r tak ing to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advan- tages. Plan D provides certain benefits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of J anu a ry 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the M in- ister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semi- precious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun- try require prior authorization by the Minister of Com- merce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0409256 gram of fine gold per Bolivian Peso. A central rate has been established of $b 20 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and Bolivia avails itself of wider margins. For operational purposes, the exchange market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the pri- vate sector. The Central Bank of Bolivia operates in both sectors, buying foreign exchange from the Govern- ment, the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COM IBOL ), and private export firms, and selling foreign exchange without any restric- tion to the Banco del Estado, the commercial banks and exchange houses, the Government and its official agen- cies, and —through the banks —to the public. The com- mercial banks and exchange houses purchase exchange accruing to the private sector on account of capital and invisibles, and they cover all foreign exchange require- ments of the private sector. The exchange rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1977 was $b 20.00 buy- ing, and $b 20.02 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax, a 2 per mill stamp tax, and a 1 per mill banking commis- sion. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the com- mercial banks and exchange houses on the same date was $b 20.40 per US$1. Bolivia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the central banks within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral compensation agreement. imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce; these agencies are not permitted to import com- modities that are available in Bolivia. Private imports of certain commodities also require such prior authori- zation; these goods include live cattle, various foods tuffs, specified motor vehicles, cement, and petroleum and petroleum products. The import of goods which are produced locally is prohibited, in par t icu lar, f u r n i t u r e, articles of clothing, electric batteries, and detergents. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased f rom commercial banks. Most foreign credits, including officially guaranteed sup- pliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Financing Institute (INDEF). Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 25 per cent ad valorem, which must be lodged 120 days prior to the anticipated release from customs. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to an "additional tax," to an import sur- charge of 3 per cent, and to an 8 per cent tax on services rendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. (For profits and dividends on foreign investments, however, see section on Capital, below.) Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leav- ing the country. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 60 for overland travel to such countries, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 400 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, although certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures under taken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the M in ing Bank that of the small mines of the private sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made freely; inward capital transfers also may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Financing Institute. Most foreign 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA loans must be registered with the National Investment Institute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and m in ing are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Carta- gena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affec t ing these powers of the Central Bank, the M in ing Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and p la t inum. The M in ing Bank also sells gold, silver, and p la t inum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it establishes jo in t ly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requirements of gold f rom the M in ing Bank. Cooperatives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annua l ly to domestic jewelers and den- tists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1977 January 5. A temporary surcharge of $b 1.33 per kilogram of imported wheat flour was imposed (Decree No. 14243). February 8. Certain products were exempted from the 25 per cent prior deposit requirement; these included dietetic sugar, prepared foods for infants, flour prepara- tions, and other homogenized foods. In order to stimu- late domestic production, tariffs and surcharges were introduced or were raised for postcards, textiles, certain construction materials, a lum inum, copper, and sports equipment (Decree No. 14311). March 22. Imports of certain vehicles, such as pas- senger vehicles weighing between 1,100-2,100 kilograms, and with 10-15 seats, were prohibited. Imports of vehicles, microbuses, and large passenger trucks weigh- ing between 2,100-6,100 kilograms became subject to prior authorization (Decree No. 14395). May 1. All imports with a value of US$300 or less were exempted f rom the prior import deposit require- ment. In addition, this exemption was extended to con- struction equipment imported by registered companies, publicity material, and trade samples. July 1. Tin plate, polyvinyl, and certain shirts were added to the list of prohibited imports, bringing the total number of prohibited items to 36. July 14. For a period of one year the import of cer- ta in items required by the sugar industry (chlorhydrate acids, phosphorus, nitrogen, chemicals, ju te sacks, iron, cables, motors, generators, etc.) was exempted f rom prior import deposits and f rom import surcharges (Decree No. 14764). July 22. The effective period of Supreme Decrees Nos. 12914 of October 3, 1975 and 12985 of October 22, 1975, which prohibited imports of a number of products for two years, was extended for two years. Additional products were included, such as yuca starch, f ru it juices, toilet soap, shirts, and sacks and bags of polypropylene. Other products, such as tableware and other ceramic housewares, galvanized plates and lights for public light- ing had been included in the prior licensing regime (Decree No. 14766). August 5. A new law on fiscal incentives for nontra- ditional exports was passed. The law provided, inter alia, for the liberalization of effective tar iffs, the lower- ing of domestic taxes, and an indirect compensation scheme (tax rebates) for the production and export of nontraditional products such as sugar, wood, cotton, coffee, and live animals (Decree No. 14803). 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange and Trade System Botswana's currency is the Pula. No par va lue or central rate has been established. The official exchange rate is P 1 = US$1.2075. The exchange control powers are vested in the Min- ister of Finance and Development Planning, who has delegated most of the administration of exchange control to the Bank of Botswana (the central b a n k ). The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. Payments to or f rom residents of countries outside Botswana must normally be made or received in a foreign currency (a specified foreign currency in the case of export proceeds) or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. There are no bilateral pay- ments agreements. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward transfers of capital are con- sidered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident fore ign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits —such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 800 for a child. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coins, and take out P 50 in such banknotes and coins. Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, how- ever, for most goods imported into Botswana f rom out- side the customs union, and should be applied for before the goods are dispatched from the exporting country. Certain imported goods require permits, regardless of the coun try of supply, for other than revenue and economic reasons. These include firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and horticultural products. A few goods, such as precious and semiprecious stones, require permits before export is allowed. Goods of domestic origin may move free ly between Botswana and Rhodesia by v ir tue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not perm i t ted. Changes during 1977 April 30. The official exchange rate was changed f rom P 1 = US$1.15 to P 1 = US$1.2075. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System On Ju ly 14, 1948, a par va lue for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil w i th the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy by which the exchange rate for the cruzeiro in terms of its interven- tion currency, the U.S. dollar, is adjusted by irregular amoun ts at relatively short intervals. Exchange transac t ions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un i fo rm i ty between the rates quoted by the mone tary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the mone ta ry authorities of s tand ing ready to purchase exchange f rom the banks and to sell it to the banks at the off ic ial rate for approved transactions. On December 31, 1977, the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the mone ta ry authorities to the public were Cr$15.950 and Cr$ 16.050, respectively, per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. do l lar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, wh ich for the rates listed above result in effec t ive rates w i th in 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the mone tary authorities. On the buy ing side, other effec t ive rates result f rom the fo l low ing a r rangemen ts: ( 1) the Na t ional Mone tary Council can apply an export tax at the ra te of 10 per cent; this rate can be lowered or be raised up to 40 per cent; (2) special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); ( 3) a 10 per cent con tr ibu t ion ("contribution quota") is levied on proceeds f rom exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products, except for those in respect of exports of sweet- ened cocoa powder con ta in ing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw ma ter ia l, for which the con tr ibu t ion quota is 5 per cent; (4) a con tr ibu t ion quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of rawh ides of w i ld animals, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds f rom tanned or processed hides of wild an ima ls; and (5) a contribution quota of 20-40 per cent, va ry ing according to quality, is applied to proceeds f rom exports of quartz chips. On the selling side, a d i f fe rent effective rate arises f rom the provision of the Foreign Inves tment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, b e low ), which speci- fies that the sum of net profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is 72 subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions, including those of all public sector agencies. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Govern- ment at the exchange rate prevailing on the date the transaction is made. The Central Bank handles all exchange transactions in bilateral currencies. The authorized banks are required to surrender to the Central Bank or to the Bank of Brazil (operating for the account of the Central B a n k ), at the close of each business day, any fore ign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 for each branch. The Central Bank and the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supply foreign exchange to author- ized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to e l im ina te an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers; included in this l im it is the ir "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell fore ign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same t rad ing center; t rans fe rs between branches of the same bank in d i f fe rent t rad ing centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In addi- tion, exchange transactions are permitted between banks in Rio de Janeiro and banks in Sao Paulo; such trans- actions may be carried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a fo rwa rd basis and must be executed w i th in 2 wo rk ing days for spot transactions or not later than a f ter 180 days for fo rwa rd transactions. The "manual market" is conducted ma in ly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to ma in ta in a sold position and are not en t i t led to ob ta in exchange cover from the mone tary authorities. Administration of Control The Na t ional Monetary Council is responsible for the fo rmu la t ion of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance w i th the guidelines established by the Coun- cil, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (D E CAM ), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Department for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (F iRCE ); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the in term in is ter ial Foreign Loans Commission (CEMPEX ). The Na t ional Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX ), established w i th in the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution merce, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's executive organ for deal- ing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions w i th in Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exportagdo and guias de importagdo). CACEX also is in charge of ap- proving import f inanc ing with terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute ( IBC ). The Customs Policy Council (CPA ), established w i th in the M in is try of Finance, is responsible for formu la t ing guidelines for ta r i ff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the Braz i l ian Foreign Trade Committee (CB I ). Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agreements coun- tries l are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account; such transactions are exempt from the contracting of specific surrender or cover with the Central Bank. imports and Import Payments The import of commodities o r ig ina t ing in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. CACEX has sus- pended the issuance of import licenses for a large num- ber of "superfluous" imports. The importation of auto- mobiles, toys, and certain nonessential commodities is prohibited. There is also a prohibition on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (d irect organs of the Government, au tonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participa- t ion ). Also, ministries or agencies controlled by the Federal Government are prohibited f rom importing, leasing, or purchas ing in the domestic ma rket mach inery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin, for which satisfactory domestic equivalents are avail- able. All other imports may be grouped into the follow- ing two broad categories; ( 1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior adm in is t ra t ive docu- mentation, e.g., samples w i thout commercial va lue and certain educational ma ter ia l; and ( 2) imports that re- quire an import certificate which is issued subject to the presentation of data on the fore ign price of the com- modity and other relevant in fo rma t ion CACEX may 1 Bilateral accounts are ma in ta ined with Bulgaria, Ge rman Demo- cratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, and Roman ia. Reciprocal credit agreements providing for settlements th rough accounts denominated in U.S. dollars are in force with Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Pe ru, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela. Settlements with countries w i th which Brazil has no paymen ts agree- ments or special paymen ts a r rangemen ts are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. BRAZIL require. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, they are valid for 90 or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price con- t ro ls ). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes six-monthly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' sem iannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these inc lude goods imported by public bodies,2 imports for which ta r i ff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with fore ign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fa i rs and trade exhibitions, and used ins tru- ments, machinery, and equipment. All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are re- quired to subm it to CACEX programs of their anticipated import operations. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to commitments under LAFTA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock bu i ld ing purposes; (2) imports are causing or threaten to cause serious damage to the na t ional economy; or ( 3) imports originate in or are shipped f rom countries that in any way raise impediments to Brazilian exports. Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are sub- ject to an annual quota. The t rans fer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods origi- n a l ly impor ted in to the Manaus free zone, is restricted to the equ iva lent of US$150, free of import taxes. With certain exceptions, all imports are subject to a compulsory advance deposit requirement equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the imports. The deposits must be lodged before import certificates are collected and are held without interest by the Central Bank for a period of 360 days. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days f rom the date of sh ipmen t, provided that no import du ty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports of capital goods, in termed ia te products, raw materials, and other goods and merchandise regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be registered w i th the Central 2 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are requ ired to submit, for approval by the President, an annual inves tment program incorporating their anticipated import requirements. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Bank, which will eva lua te them in the light of foreign debt policy, before a request can be made for registra- tion with FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also depend- ent on a ruling by CACEX that Brazilian firms are unable to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and of interest thereon, may be made only upon presen- tation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank approving the credit terms. Prior to ship- ment of the goods, total paymen ts to suppliers for the non-financed amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle d ra f ts, at sight or on ma tu r i ty, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on m a tu r i ty of the d r a f t; this may take place 2 wo rk ing days in advance of the ma tu r i ty date if the exchange t ran s fer is processed by telegram or telex, or 10 work ing days in advance if processed by a i rma il or check. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requ i rement equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions, to the con- tracting of fo rwa rd exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Deposits are payable to the Cen tral Bank on the work ing day following the exchange operation and are released on the da te of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract.3 Letters of credit must be opened w i th in 5 wo rk ing days f rom the date of the exchange con trac t. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened w i thout prior closing of an ex- change contract. Commercial banks o rd ina r i ly requ ire a guaran tee deposit for the ir own protection for fo rwa rd exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies w i th the credit s tand ing of the customer. When the con trac ts are liquidated, guaran tee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. Special procedures are applicable to certain impo r ts of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For pe t ro leum and specified petroleum by-products, Petro- bras concludes for each import transac t ion an ind iv idual fore ign exchange contract. At the same t ime, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract w i th the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equiva- lent to the value of the individual contract at the ex- change rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, the application of import duties may be affec ted by the existence of sa t isfac tory domestic equ iva len ts (similares nationals) or the estab- 3 Imports exempt f rom the deposit requirement include beef, printing paper for newspapers, magazines and books, fe r t i l ize rs, cer ta in agri- cu l tu ral chemicals and related raw ma ter ia ls for the ir p rodu c t ion, and goods imported into the Manaus f ree zone. Also exempt are imports au thor ized und er d rawback operations and impor ts of seeds and f r u i ts for planting provided they are already exempt f r om the deposit requ i rement applied to the issuance of impo rt licenses. 74 l ishment of a m in imum import price (pauta de valor minima) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income f rom fore ign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Law. In add i t ion to certain restrictions on rem i t tances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see be low ). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$300 a mon th for personal remittances abroad. Paymen ts for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which au thor ize rem i t tances freely, subject to the presen ta t ion of suppor t ing documents as evidence that a bona fide current t ransac t ion is involved. Sales of fore ign exchange to meet personal expenses connected w i th travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amoun ts in excess of US$1,000, when author- ized, may be taken up in the fo rm of payment orders only. Foreign residents in t rans it in Brazil are permitted to purchase fo re ign currency up to the equ iva lent of the amount they sold du r ing the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. The issuance of Brazilian passports, the gran t ing of police exit visas in these passports, and the issuance of police exit visas to fore igners pe rmanen t ly resident in Brazil are subject to a deposit requ irement of Cr$16,000.4 The deposit is held in the Bank of Brazil for one year w i thout interest and w i thout mone tary cor- rection. Persons w ish ing to purchase foreign exchange for travel must first produce evidence of payment of the deposit requ irement in respect of passports and exit visas.5 Rem i t tances abroad of income f rom foreign direct investments and reinvestments, and remittances in re- spect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which con- ta ins the regulations imp lemen t ing the Foreign Invest- ment Law. Rem i t tances are allowed only when the for- eign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the con trac ts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and adm in is tra t ive assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance w i th the established rules (see sec- tion on Capital, be low ). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the Na t ional Insti- tu te of Indus tr ial Property. Rem i t tances are no rma l ly 4 The deposit was increased to Cr$22,000 w i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 30, 1978. 5 Exempt f r om the deposit requ i rement are students, teachers, artists, athletes, priests and nuns, technicians and specialists whose travel abroad is in the public in teres t, and exporters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized in the currency of the coun try of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortiza- tion payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (other than capital invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For registered por tfo l io capital, the sup- plementary income tax is levied if remittances of divi- dends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered investment. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the fore ign principal firm or when the ma jor i ty of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (e i ther with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not per- mitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging f rom 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts f rom the sale or manu- facture of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for deter- mining the max imum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure compli- ance with the requirements of exchange and t rade regu- lations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are prohibited or suspended, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic consumption, and ex- ports of certain other commodities are cond i t ional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or payable in inconvertible currencies, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities, inc lud ing beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an au thor iza t ion to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per BRAZIL pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f .o .b .) fixed f rom time to time by the IBC for the various types of coffee. Licensed coffee exporters are obliged to export a mini- mum quantity a year, which, for 1977, was fixed at 50,000 bags. Exporters of coffee are required to sur- render, without compensation, a portion of their pro- ceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds f rom the contribution quota are transferred to the Coffee Defense Fund. The contribution quotas are set from time to time by the IBC and are fixed in terms of fore ign currency; on December 31, 1977 they were US$120 a bag for green coffee, ground or roasted coffee, and decaffe ina ted green coffee, and US$0.60 a pound for spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee. Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, a f ter deduction of the contribution quotas, at the prevailing official ma rket rate of exchange. Thus, the exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on ( 1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f .o .b. Brazil, in U.S. do l lars), and (3) the official market rate of exchange. Dur ing 1977, the IBC changed m in imum registration prices as well as contribution quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and decaf- fe ina ted coffee. These changes are summarized below in Tables 1 and 2. TABLE 1. MINIMUM REGISTRATION PRICES FOR COFFEE EXPORTS DECREED DURING 1977 BY IBC Date of Resolution Decision No. Shipping Period A. Soluble Coffee M in imum Regis- tration Price (US$ per Ib.) Spray Freeze Dried i Dried * Feb. 4 Mar. 4 May 20 Aug. 12 Oct. 7 Dec. 2 B. Green, Jan. 28 Feb. 25 Mar. 4 Mar. 25 May 20 Aug. 12 Oct. 7 Dec. 2 6 May 1-31 5.00 7 .00 10 Mar. 7-June 30 7.00 8. ,00 23 July 1-Aug. 31 7.00 8. ,00 29 Sept. 1-Oct. 31 7.00 8, ,00 33 Nov. 1-Dec. 31 7.00 8.00 37 Jan. 1-Feb. 28, 1978 4.20 5,,20 Ground-Roasted, and Decaffeinated Coffee 5 May 1-31 2.20 8 June 1-30 2.30 Mar. 7-June 30 9 2.80 12 Mar. 28-June 30 3.00 22 July 1-Aug. 31 3.20 28 Sept. 1-Oct. 31 3.20 32 Oct. 10-Dec. 31 3.20 36 Jan. 1-Feb. 28, 1978 2.10 1 Throughout the year, the m in imum registration price for soluble coffee, spray dried or freeze dried, if packed to final consumer, was US$1.00 higher than the quoted prices. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL TABLE 2. CONTRIBUTION QUOTAS FOR COFFEE EXPORTS DECREED DURING 1977 BY IBC Date of Resolution Decision No. Shipping Period Contribution Quota production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufac tures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. A. Soluble Coffee—Spray Dried and Freeze Dried (US$ per Ib.) 2.00 2.20 3.20 3.20 3.20 3.20 0.601 From Apr. 1 onward May 1-31 Mar. 7-June 30 Ju ly l -Aug. 31 Sept. 1-Oct. 31 Nov. 1-Dec. 31 Jan. 1-Feb. 28, 1978 Jan. 5 Feb. 4 Mar. 4 May 20 Aug. 12 Oct. 7 Dec. 2 1 5 10 23 29 33 371 B. Green, Jan. 17 Feb. 15 Mar. 4 Mar. 8 Apr. 1 May 2 May 20 May 30 May 30 June 27 June 27 July 20 Oct. 7 Dec. 2 Ground-Roasted, and Decaffeinated Coffee (US$ per 60.5 kg. bag) 103.00(10.00)2 107.00(10.00)2 Mar. 7-June 30 120.00 (20.00)2 125.00 (20.00)2 134.00 (30.00)2 143.00 (40.00)2 July 1-Aug. 31 143.00 (20 .00)2, 3 May 31-June 30 149.00 (40.00)2, 3 July 1-Aug. 31 149.00 (20.00)2, 3 June 28-30 156.00 (40.00)2, 3 July 1-Aug. 31 156.00 (20.00)2, 3 160.00 (20.00)2, 3 220.00 (20.00)2, 3 120.00(20.00)2,3 3 7 9 11 13 18 22 25 25 26 26 27 32 36 1 The contribution quota was waived for soluble coffee, if packed to final consumer. 2 The U.S. dollar amount shown in parentheses gives the portion of the contribution quota which has to be deposited within 48 hours of the registration of the sale and is not refunded if the sale declaration is canceled. 3 The portion of the contribution quota shown in parentheses was waived for washed and decaffeinated coffee. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, w i th in the limits the official market, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without com- pensation 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. Furthermore, a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of unprocessed hides of wild animals, 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals, and 20-40 per cent on export proceeds f rom quartz chips. A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of manufactured commodities. These incen- tives include exemptions f rom indirect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption f rom tax liability. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Bank of Brazil and the commercial banks. These financing facili- ties include both export financing and the financing of 76 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Brazilian enterprises rendering services to tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings from tourism provided that the service is paid for in foreign exchange and that the tourist enterprise converts the exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate.6 Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63 (as amended) or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of CEMPEX is also required for borrowing by the public sector, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institutions abroad for borrowing by the private sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. Otherwise, inward transfers are un- restricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be regis- tered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this pur- pose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial correspond- ing expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resi- dent or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Brazilian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the fo rm of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the «Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is still subject to implementing regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution corporate cap i tal and participates d i rec t ly in the risk inherent in an economic under tak ing. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate cap i tal of any en terpr ise that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan ob ta ined to purchase capital goods abroad, whe ther conceded by the m anu- fac tu rer himself or by a th i rd pa r ty, is considered to be f inanc ing (mos t ly suppliers' c r ed i t ). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make portfolio inves tmen ts in Braz i l ian commercial and indus tr ial secur i t ies, provided that t ran sac t ions are channeled through a B raz i l ian " inves tment company" and are effected on Braz i l ian stock exchanges. Such capi- tal is sub ject to reg is tra t ion w i th the Cen t ral Bank and must rema in in the coun t ry for at least three years, following which repatriation may be made free of income taxes at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six mon ths. The m i n im um pa r t ic ipa t ion in po r t fo l io inves t- ment companies by foreign firms or ind iv idua ls is US$10,000. For f inanc ial impo r ts and for inv e s tm en ts made in the fo rm of goods, reg is t ra t ion is made in the cu r rency of the coun try of dom ic i le of the creditor or inves tor (or of its head o f f ice) or, in special c ircums tances, in the currency of the coun t ry of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in fo re ign currency it is necessary to c e r t i fy that the in terest ra te corresponds to that p r ev a i l ing in the o r ig in al m a r k et of the loan, t h at the amo r t iza t ion schedule is not d i sp ropo r t iona te ly heavy in the ear ly stages of repaymen t, and, in the case of import financing loans, t h at the prices of the impo r ted goods correspond to the prices of compa rab le goods in the coun t ry of or ig in. If the te rms of financing are approved, CACEX exam ines the app l ica t ions for some fo re ign bo r row ing in the light of the price and essen- t ia l i ty of the proposed impo rt and of the a v a i l a b i l i ty of sa t is fac to ry domestic equivalents. The reg is tra t ion of direct inv e s tm ent is subject to the fo l low ing ru le s: The cap i tal that en ters or has entered B raz il is registered in fo re ign cu r rency. Re inve s tmen ts are def ined as prof i ts of compan ies es tab l ished in Braz il and accrued to persons or compan ies res ident or dom i- ciled ab road; such profits must have been re inves ted in the same compan ies th at produced them or in ano ther sector of the B r a z i l i an economy. The reg i s t ra t ion of reinvested p ro f i ts is made s imu l t an eou s ly in B raz i l ian currency and in the currency of the coun t ry to which the profits could have been r em i t t ed. The convers ion is calculated at the average exchange ra te p reva i l ing be- tween the date on wh ich the p ro f i ts appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the da te of their re inves tmen t. Special regu la t ions govern bo r row ing abroad. Under Cen tral Bank Reso lu t ion No. 63, as amended, p r iva te commerc ial and inves tment banks and the Na t ional Bank for Economic Development may be au thor ized to take up fo re ign currency credits abroad for domes t ic relend- BRAZIL ing for purposes of financing wo rk ing capital. Safeguards aga inst excessive use of such credits include l im i ta t ions on the fore ign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the b a n k) and the provision that the u l t ima te borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the ava i lab i l i ty of cover for the repa tr ia t ion of the loan at ma tu r i ty. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general pro- visions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131 ). Loans under th is law also require prior Central Bank au tho r iza t ion, but the Central Bank does not under take to provide exchange cover for them. Loans under Reso lu t ion No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m in imum term of five years but no maxi- mum term is set. For foreign loans that entered the coun t ry between November 11, 1977 and the end of the year, proceeds were deposited w i th the Central Bank for release between Janua ry 1 and Janua ry 5, 1978 accord- ing to a set schedule. Und er a program for the management of external debt, the Na t ional Monetary Council has since Decem- ber 1971 imposed quan t i ta t ive limits on the amount of financial loans for which au thor iza t ion may be given by the Cen t ral Bank. Loans are au thor ized on ly if ma tu r i t ies con fo rm with m i n im um requirements established f rom t ime to time by the Central Bank, which permits the to tal of loans ou t s tand ing to rise on ly to the ex tent that the serv ic ing comm i tmen ts on Brazil's to tal ex ternal indeb tedness do not depart f r om the gu ide l ines set by the N a t ion al Mone ta ry Council. At the end of 1977 the Cen t ral Bank's m i n im um acceptable m a t u r i ty stood at five years (unchanged since 1975 ). However, pro- v ided that the f u ll amount of the fo re ign exchange re- m a i ns comm i t ted to Braz il for the m i n im um specified m a tu r i ty, loans to the final borrower in B raz i l, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final m a t u r i ty of the debt abroad and these f u n ds may subsequen t ly be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Ou twa rd cap i tal t ran s fe rs not men t ioned above requ ire au tho r iza t ion by DECAM and FIRCE wh ich consider app l ica t ions on their merits. Approved exchange t rans- ac t ions invo lv ing ou tward t rans fe rs of p r iva te cap i tal are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of B raz il at the p r ev a i l ing o f f ic ial m a rk et ra te. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in B raz i l. Gold m i n i ng is conduc ted under Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mon e t a ry au tho r i t ies and licensed indu s t r i al users are not pe rm i t ted to purchase, ho ld, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special per- mission is obtained f rom the Central Bank. The mone tary au thor i t ies do not deal in gold. The domestic negotia- t ion of newly mined gold, wh ich takes place at free ma rket prices, is sub ject to a m i n i ng tax of 1 per cent. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL The mining tax may be offset against the other tax liabilities if and when gold is manufac tured. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the fo rm of powder are free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certificate. Changes during 1977 During 1977, the buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities for the cruzeiro against the U.S. dollar were changed on 14 occasions as follows: Janu- ary 18, f rom Cr$ 12.275 and Cr$ 12.345 to Cr$ 12.520 and Cr$ 12.590; February 16, Cr$ 12.800 and Cr$ 12.870; March 9, Cr$12.980 and Cr$13.050; April 4, Cr$l3.295 and Cr$13.365; May 3, Cr$13.630 and Cr$13.700; May 31, Cr$13.930 and Cr$14.000; June 28, Cr$14.280 and Cr$14.350; July 21, Cr$14.490 and Cr$14.560; August 16, Cr$14.740 and Cr$14.810; September 15, Cr$ 14.920 and Cr$ 15.020; October 18, Cr$15.175 and Cr$15.275; November 16, Cr$15.435 and Cr$15.535; December 6, Cr$ 15.700 and Cr$ 15.800; December 20, Cr$ 15.950 and Cr$ 16.050. January 1. New limits on the global foreign exchange positions of banks came into effect. The limit on the bought position in foreign exchange was fixed at US$500,000, and the limit on the sold position for banks w i th capital and free reserves of up to Cr$150 m i l l ion, was fixed at US$500,000; for those w i th capital and free reserves of more than Cr$150 million, the limit was US$5 million. The max imum bought position for establishments authorized to operate in the manual mar- ket was fixed at US$25,000 for each location (Central Bank Resolution No. 393). January 1. It was announced that export exchange contracts could be liquidated only w i th the prior receipt of foreign exchange through an account ma in ta ined abroad by an authorized bank (Cen tral Bank Resolution No. 391 ). January 1. The contribution quota of 40 per cent applied to exports of quartz chips was reduced to 20 per cent for products of second or third quality. January 3. The tax on imported z inc was lowered f rom 30 per cent to 7 per cent, ad valorem. Also, im- porters of un f in ished zinc would have to prove they had bought twice the imported volume f rom local sources; impo r te rs of special high-grade zinc would have to prove they had bought 1 ton locally for each 3.4 tons imported. January 20. The IBC increased the m i n im um annual export requ irement for licensed coffee exporters to Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1977)7 (Cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling 7.643 Exports of green or ground-roasted coffee.8 8.398 Exports of green coffee, washed or decaffeinated.8 8.659 Exports of spray-dried soluble coffee.8 9.570 Exports of spray-dried soluble coffee, packed to final con- sumer.8 Exports of freeze-dried soluble coffee.8 Exports of quartz chips, first quality .& 10.279 Exports of freeze-dried soluble coffee, packed to final con- sumer.8 12.760 Exports of quartz chips, second and third quality.10 14.355 Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products other than sweetened cocoa powder.11 Exports of rawhides of wild animals.11 15.153 Exports of tanned or processed hides of wild animals.12 Ex- ports of sweetened cocoa powder.12 15.950 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. ("Official Market" Rate) All other export proceeds. Other proceeds. 16.050 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. ("Official Market" Ra te) Imports. Invisibles.13 Capital. 7 Excluding brokerage fees. 8 Calculated on the basis of official market rate, contribution quota, and minimum registration price. 9 Official market rate less 40 per cent contribution quota. 10 Official market rate less 20 per cent contribution quota. 11 Official market rate less 10 per cent contribution quo ta. 12 Official market rate less 5 per cent contribution quota. 13 A different effective rate may apply to remittances of profits and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50,000 bags of coffee in 1977. The m in imum export requirement in 1976 was 20,000 bags. January 21. A global limit of US$320 million (f .o .b .) was fixed for imports into the Manaus free zone in 1977. Imports of petroleum and wheat were not included in this limit; in addition, goods imported into the free zone intended for manufac ture in the free zone and subse- quent re-export, and goods imported under drawback arrangements, also were excluded (Decree No. 79028). February 11. The issuance of import licenses for the import of some steel and nonferrous metals was made subject to the prior approval of the Conselho de Nao- Ferrosos e Siderurgia (CONSIDER) until the end of December (CONCEX Resolution No. 108). February 11. The issuance of import licenses for electronic computers and ancillaries was made subject to prior approval of the Coordinating Commission for Electronic Data Processing Activities (CA PRE) un t il the end of December (CONCEX Resolution No. 107). February 16. Central Bank Resolution No. 420 in- creased the amount of the deposit requirement payable on the issuance of passports and exit visas f rom Cr$ 12,000 to Cr$ 16,000, with effect f rom February 17. February 28. The port improvement tax on imports was increased f rom 2 per cent to 3 per cent (Decree- Law No. 1507). March 21. A ban was introduced on imports of all automobiles, pleasure c ra f t, toys, some articles of per- fumery, luxury foods tuffs, and gift items. Also, subsidi- aries of foreign firms were required to purchase raw materials and components locally, whereas previously they had been allowed to import these items f rom parent or associated companies abroad (Decree-Law No. 1427). March 23. Central Bank Resolution No. 421 estab- lished a con tr ibu t ion quota of 7 per cent ad valorem on the f.o.b. export value of soybeans and soybean oil, meal, and cake. The f u n ds derived f rom the contribu- tion quota were to be used to subsidize domestic prices. March 28. Central Bank Resolution No. 422 intro- duced fu r th er ad jus tmen ts to the regulations relating to the 360-day, 100 per cent import deposit requ iremen t. Certain add i t ional items were exempted f rom the deposit requirement, inc lud ing mach inery and equ ipment and materials for petroleum research, equ ipment and mate- rials required for scientific research and technology, when or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom LAFTA countries or when approved by the Na t ional Research Council, fuel and nuclear materials when imported directly or when authorized by the Nuclear Commission on Nuclear Energy, and cassiterite and tinplate when approved by CONSIDER. Furthermore, imports of vehicles, mach inery, equipment, apparatus, and ins t rumen ts w i thout domestic equivalents were exempted f rom the requirement if im- ported for the importer's own use, and carried out under an external credit operation, at a term not less than that established by the Central Bank for such operations. BRAZIL March 28. Imports of machinery and spare parts for programs approved by the Industrial Development Council and financed on terms no less favorable than those established by the Central Bank were exempted f rom the 360-day, 100 per cent deposit (Central Bank Resolution No. 422 ). March 30. Central Bank Circular No. 342 established at five years the m in imum period for which imports effected under external financing arrangemen ts would be exempted f rom the 360-day, 100 per cent deposit requirement. May 2. Central Bank Resolution No. 426 increased f rom 7 per cent to 12 per cent the ad valorem tax on the f.o.b. export value of soybeans in the fo rm of grain, oil, meal, and cake. May 20. IBC Resolution No. 21 /77 announced new export arrangements, effective Ju ly 1, by which exports of coffee were to be linked to the supply of coffee to the domestic marke t. May 27. A. trade agreement with Yugoslavia replaced the trade, payments, and cooperation agreement of April 1, 1958. The new agreement provided that pay- ments for transactions between the two countries were to be made in convertible foreign currency, w i th effect f rom October 1 (DECAM Communication No. 16). June 6. The global l im it on imports into the Manaus free zone in 1977 was raised to US$350 million (Decree No. 79772). June 23. A five-year trade agreement with Iran was signed. Under the agreement Brazil was to purchase US$5 billion worth of oil f rom I ran, and Iran was to spend at least 30 per cent of its oil revenues f rom sales to Brazil either on Brazilian goods or on inves tmen ts in Brazil. June 23. Central Bank Resolution No. 432 required recipients of foreign loans to make fo re ign currency deposits w i th authorized banks for surrender to the Cen- tral Bank. The foreign currency deposit made aga inst a fore ign loan should amount to the total of the fore ign loan or a portion thereof, but not less than US$20,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies. Foreign borrowers were required to centralize their deposits at one authorized bank. Amoun ts deposited might be with- drawn, totally or in portions of US$20,000, 30 days a f t er the date of the last operation at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the withdrawal. June 24. The Central Bank extended f rom 6 months to 30 months the grace period for the repayment of principal on foreign loans contracted a f ter June 24. Exempted f rom the regulation were credits granted to Brazilian exporters (Decision of the Na t ional Mone tary Counc i l ). June 30. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Israel was term ina ted. It was announced tha t, w i th e f fect f rom Ju ly 1, paymen ts re la t ing to transac t ions between the two countries wou ld be made in convertible currencies (DECAM Commun ica t ion No. 6 ). 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL July 20. The ceiling for foreign credits for govern- ment development programs was raised f rom Cr$27 billion to Cr$47 billion. The ceiling on loans or ig ina t ing with international agencies for states, municipalities, public entities, and mixed-economy companies was raised f rom Cr$56 b i l l ion to Cr$166 billion (Decree- Law No. 1562). August 1. Decree-Law No. 1565 gave fo rmal exemp- tion to Petrobras f rom restrictions on imports of mate- rials and equipment for use in production of crude oil and na tural gas on the Bacia dos Campos oilfield un t il July 31, 1979. August 8. For specified imported commodities, ma in ly spare parts and components, the requ irement of import licensing was waived, if the f.o.b. value did not exceed US$1,000 or its equivalent in other currencies (CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 608). August 18. The export tax on soybeans, in troduced on March 23 at 7 per cent ad valorem (as a means of protecting the Braz i l ian soyoil market f rom in f la t ion caused by the steep rise in the price of soybeans in in terna t ional m a r k e t s ), which subsequen t ly was raised to 12 per cent (M ay 2) and was reduced to 7 per cent (June 30) and 4 per cent ( Ju ly 2 2 ), was removed (DECAM Commun ica t ion No. 1 1 ). August 19. Under a new procedure established by CACEX, special bonded warehouse importers of parts, pieces, and replacement material could submit to CACEX, in June and December of each fiscal year sem iannual programs regarding their import requ iremen ts (CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 611 ). September 14. Forty-one products were exempted from the 360-day, 100 per cent import deposit require- men t. The exemption ma in ly affected metals and ores, which previously could be imported w i thout prior deposit only f rom LAFTA countries. Other commodi- ties affected inc luded bovine an ima ls for consump t ion; fresh fish; wheelchairs and similar vehicles; hangar and apron tools; goods leased abroad for indus t r ial purposes; unserviceable ships; cardiac valves; concentrated m i lk; parts, components, raw materials, and intermediate prod- ucts not having a similares nationals that are intended for the manu fac tu re of machines, and equipment. It was established that, with effect from January 1, 1978, the 360-day, 100 per cent import deposit requirement would be lifted for certain raw materials, including copper, lead, zinc, intermediate products of nickel metal- lurgy, astronomical instruments, and appa ra tus usable for ins truc t ion and demonstration. October 18. Decree Law No. 1578/77 authorized the Na t ional Mone tary Council to apply an export tax of 10 per cent on the f.o.b. va lue of any export. The Government might increase the rate of tax to 40 per cent or reduce its incidence in order to meet fore ign exchange and trade policy objectives. October 25. The deposit requ irement was waived for beef imports and for a ll meat imports f rom A rgen t ina and U ruguay. November 16. Cen tral Bank Resolution No. 449 froze the proceeds of foreign loans arranged under Reso- lu t ion No. 63 and Law No. 4131. The f u n ds were to be held at the Central Bank and were to be released on ly a f t er year-end: for f u n ds en ter ing between November 11 and November 25, release was to take place on Janu- ary 3, 1978; funds en ter ing between November 28 and December 9 were to be un f ro z en on J anu a ry 4, 1978; and f u n ds en ter ing between December 12 and year-end were to be un f rozen on J anu a ry 5, 1978. November 21. A tax of 3 per cent was imposed on the f.o.b. va lue of exports of soya cake and b ran (Cen- t ral Bank Resolution No. 456 of November 18 under the provision of Decree-Law No. 1578). December 20. Decree-Law No. 1587 granted fiscal incentives, in the fo rm of income tax rebates, to Brazil- ian enterprises rendering services to fore ign tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agencies), provided the service was paid for in foreign exchange and that the enterprise converted the foreign exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat. The central rate is K 8.50847 = SDR 1, and Burma avails itself of wider margins. On Decem- ber 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, were K 7.0172 and K 7.1575, respectively, per US$1. The Bank's buy- ing and selling rates for sterling on the same date were K 13.3799 and K 13.6474, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. There are no exchange taxes or commissions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange to the public sector. Most exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (ME IC ), although rubber, ju te, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly. Rice is exported by the Trade Corporation. The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. Government agencies and departments import goods for their own use, includ- ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most payments for imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of P lann ing and Finance. Prescription of Currency Burma has no bilateral payments agreements. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements w i th India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Bu rma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept w i th the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by in terna t ional organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely but no interest is payable on them. All foreign tourists and foreign nationals temporarily resident in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplo- matic shops, etc. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All imports from Rho- desia and South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities f rom any source— principally opium and other narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. Most imports are pur- chased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Bu rma Five Star Line whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Pay- ments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign tech- nicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w ife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the w i fe is living in Burma. Remittances of insurance payments are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before departure f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the coun try of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency wh ich they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, but some commodities are exported direct by other government agencies and departments. The list of prohibited exports comprises iron and steel, brass, copper, and a l um i n um and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodi- ties of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic requirements. All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange con- trol authorities, and surrendered to the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of sh ipmen t. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usua l ly shipped by the Burma Five Star Line or on vessels chartered or nom ina ted by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may br ing in, subject to dec lara t ion, any amount in foreign currency; fore ign na t iona ls who in tend to stay for more than six months must su r render all fo re ign exchange in their possession unless special per- mission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital In principle, investment proposals are considered by an Inves tment Committee to ascertain whether the pro- posed enterprise will utilize domestic raw ma ter ia ls, increase domestic employment, conserve fore ign ex- change, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Governmen t. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since February 15, 1963. All ou tward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit f u n ds abroad for inves tmen t. The repatriation of personal assets and the mak ing of f am i ly remittances have been suspended, w i th m inor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may rem it the ir personal savings when leaving the service. When the t rans fer abroad of payments in favor of non- residents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such paymen ts to be credited to external accounts in kya t. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require indi- v idual licenses. Gold Res iden ts may hold and trade in gold jewe lry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Bu rma. Licenses for im- ports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arr iva l. The export of personal jewe l ry is pe rm i t ted und er license, subject to the condition that the jewe lry w i ll be repatri- ated. No conditions are attached, however, to the tak ing out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Bu rma. Changes during 1977 May 2. The rate of exchange for the kyat was changed f rom K 7.74289 = SDR 1 to K 8.50847 = SDR 1. September 10. The Private En terpr ises Rights Law was passed. It repealed the Un ion of B u rma Inves tment Act of 1959. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00935443 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc. The central rate is FBu 90.00 = US$1, and Burundi avails itself of wider margins. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are fixed at FBu 89.55 buying, and FBu 90.45 selling, per US$1. The Bank quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other specified currencies 1 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Belgian f ranc and the official market rates for the currencies con- cerned in Brussels, or, for the Kenya shilling, the Rwanda franc, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shil- ling, and the zaire, on their official parities in terms of SDRs. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic for currencies quoted by that Bank. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic; author- ity to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Rwanda and Zaire are effected through special accounts. With this exception, outgoing payments may be made in any currency, while receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, by (1) physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international orga- nizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (ex- cept banknotes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zai'res. Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic and is restricted to (1) physi- cal persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion in to Bu rundi francs for any payments in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued at FBu 20,000 or less require licenses; these are generally issued freely, except for certain used cloth- ing, but importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are ade- quate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amoun ts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. The license is valid for 12 mon ths s ta r t ing at the end of the mon th following that of va l ida t ion (6 mon ths for goods shipped f rom neighboring countries and f rom Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, or Zambia, or when validated for goods shipped by air or by combined m e a n s ); in special cases, extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Sugar, salt, and matches are imported either by public sector agencies or are reserved for Burundi nationals. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required f rom private sector importers for certain luxu ry goods. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license is validated; it is released when the import payment is made. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For certain prime neces- sities, however, documentary credits may be opened for which exchange is supplied immed ia te ly. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Ship- ping insurance on coffee exports norma l ly must be taken out in Bu rundi francs with brokers or insurers estab- lished in Bu rund i. Upon proof of payment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign na t iona ls are freely per- mitted at rates rang ing from 18 per cent up to 60 per cent of the net annual income, depending on the amount of such income. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer 50 per cent of net d is tr ibu ted profits to their foreign nonresident stockholders or to stockholders who are resident foreign nationals (to the latter, a f ter payment of all taxes ); however, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of f u ll t rans fe rab i l i ty of net declared profits. Persons leaving Bu rundi pe rmanen t ly are authorized to transfer abroad the ir holdings of Burundi francs that consist of un rem i t ted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Trans- fer of income f rom rental properties to nonres ident owners of foreign na t iona l i ty is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income ( a f t er payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses); resident owners of foreign na t iona l i ty may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents of Bu rundi na t iona l i ty may apply for exchange needed for fo re ign travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi banknotes. In addition, residents may free ly purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amoun ts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. All exports valued at over FBu 5,000 are sub- ject to a prior declaration. The declaration must be pre- sented for certification by the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee are the monopoly of the Bu rundi Coffee Company. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days af ter the goods have left the coun try when they are sold to neighboring countries or to Kenya, Ma law i, Uganda, or Zambia, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days from their collection. V ir tua l ly all exports, inc lud ing coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manu fac tu red goods may receive a r e fund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import du ty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount 84 of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fu l f i l ls specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, ma in ly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the inves tmen t. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a par t icu lar project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority s ta tus may obtain protection against foreign competition, pri- ority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guaran tee from the Bank of the Republic for the free t rans fer of profits and dividends as well as the repatria- tion of the invested capital. In addition to these priv- leges, companies under tak ing investments that are con- sidered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate conven- tion, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the State Secretariat for Planning in the Office of the Prime Minister is charged w i th exam in ing requests for pr ior i ty status and gran t ing the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repa- triation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is fu rn i shed for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises for work ing capital purposes, in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and is valid for a one-year period which is renewable. The guaran tee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ru l ing on the day of transfer. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the Bank of the Republic, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The Bank purchases unrefined gold f rom domestic producers at FBu 350 a gram. A f ter refining abroad, this gold is inc luded in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Republic, w i th the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1977 November 4. The Japanese yen was added to the list of specified currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de PAfr ique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Came- roon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, the Central Afr ican Em- pire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical pur- poses. All countries, except Cameroon itself, are con- sidered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through author- ized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Planning, while export licenses require the visa of the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French 1 The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between Cameroon and Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed direct to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. The import from all sources of certain "con- trolled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisa- tion spetiole d'importation), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents have been submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Came- roon must be surrendered. For business travel, the cor- responding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent f rom real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on fam i ly status, the transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place within one month of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to license requ ir ing the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds f rom exports to all countries must be collected within 30 days of the date of arrival at their destination, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month af ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered w i th in a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries out- side the French Franc Area may t rans fer abroad the ir fu ll savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- 86 tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Came- roon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of con- trols over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign securities, foreign ex- change, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad 2 require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon 3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Cameroon have previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization 2 Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance and must subsequently be reported to h im. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans d irec t ly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in wh ich these persons or firms take part; and ( 3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the ma tu r i ty does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both fo re ign and domestic firms unde r tak ing approved new indus t r ial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and du ra- tion of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps imp lement the economic and social development p lan, and its impor- tance to na t ional economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free en try of capital goods and raw mate- rials required for manu fac tu r ing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and f rom vari- CAMEROON ous other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large com- panies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the na tu re and extent of tax concessions are determined. Norma l ly, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and it defines also the legal, economic, and financial guaran- tees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial t rans fe rs and ma rke t ing of goods. Category D enables firms mak ing investments of particular significance to the na t ional economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. A decree of August 30, 1973 provided that at least one third of the share capital of each banking or insurance institution should be held by the public sector and that its head- quarters should be in Cameroon. This decree also required banks with foreign ma jor i ty participation to subm it to the monetary authorities informa t ion on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the s truc ture of their equ i ty holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewe lry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other fo rm. Such approval is norma l ly given only to indus- trial users, inc lud ing jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which author- izes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus- tr ial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior au thor iza t ion by the Directorate of Mines and the M in is ter of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt f rom this re- qu irement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, and (2) impor ts and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 No s ign if icant changes took place. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Dollar. Since May 31, 1970 the authorities have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the Canad ian dollar within margins. The closing free market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 was Can$ 1.0940 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on for- eign payments other than certain restrictions on pay- ments to Rhodesia. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted in accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for certain drugs, a few agricultural items, certain textile products, clothing, and footwear, certain endangered species of f a u na and flora, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some of the agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities f rom any source are generally prohibited; these include oleomargarine, used auto- mobiles, secondhand aircraft, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds f rom exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. These include crude petroleum, certain petroleum products, and na tural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, Viet Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destina- itons under the authority of a general export permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical supplies, news ma ter ia l, educational equ ipment and materials for use in educational ins t i tu t ions, and books, magazines, and periodicals. 88 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts f rom, invisibles. However, travelers may not take out any Canadian silver coins minted in or prior to 1968. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Apart f rom specific restrictions in financial, broadcasting, and u ran ium sectors, inward direct investment is gov- erned by the Foreign Investment Review Act. This stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canadian business enterprise by persons other than Canadians, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada, w i ll be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of s ign if icant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed takeovers and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Exports of gold are subject to the following conditions: ( 1) exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rom an i a, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are included among those exports subject to control and require a license from the Department of Industry, Trade, and Commerce; (2) gold of U.S. origin may only be re- exported from Canada when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act; (3) movements of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles con ta in ing minor quan- tities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 were issued in 1976 and 1977. Changes during 1977 The tax on light and med ium crude oil exported to the United States, which amounted to Can$3.75 a barrel in December 1976, was adjusted during 1977 as fo l lows: Janua ry, Can$4.60; February, Can$4.40; April, Can$4.75; May, Can$5.60; August, Can$4.60; September, Can$4.80; and November, Can$5.15. January 3. General preferential ta r i f fs and British preferential ta r i f fs on color television sets of 16 or more inches were w i thdrawn un t il December 31, 1979. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 10. A temporary surtax was introduced on canned tomatoes imported from the Republic of China, to remain in effect until June 30, 1978. February 22. A temporary surtax of Can$15 was established on bicycles imported from the Republic of China. The surtax expired on October 31. February 25. Under GATT Article XIX, the Govern- ment announced the imposition of a three-year global import quota of 8.5 million pounds a year on double kn it fabrics, to come into effect on April 8. March 16. A 12-month quota was imposed on products made of broad-woven, polyester filament fabr ics f rom Hong Kong. March 19. The regulations of the Foreign Inves tment Review Agency were simplified. Foreign impor t ing and distributing firms were authorized to establish m anu f a c- turing companies directly related to their activities w i th- out need of review. Procedural changes to reduce the amount of information required f rom small businesses were also introduced. March 31. Under the budget proposals for 1977-78 the temporary tariff cuts first introduced in February 1973 were fur ther extended, except for light fixtures. The provision for a ircraft and a ircraft engines to be imported free of duty was extended through June 30, 1978 and for petroleum through June 30, 1980. Duties on several items imported f rom developing countries were reduced or eliminated under the Generalized Sys- tem of Preferences. Du ty rates on ce r ta in polypropylene resins were increased by 2.5 percentage points to their CANADA GATT-bound level. A December 31, 1978 deadline was imposed on the right to use special rules to avoid tax on distributions out of the pre-1972 surplus of Canad ian corporations. April 6. Coun terva i l ing regulations under the customs ta r i ff were issued, establishing procedures whereby Canad ian industries that are affected by subsidized imports may seek the protection provided for under Section 7 of the customs ta r i f f. April 28. Issuance of import permits for worsted fabrics of 17 per cent wool, or more, were suspended. Subsequently, bilateral quotas were negotiated w i th Czechoslovakia, Romania, and U ruguay. June 16. It was announced that the import quota on clothing, first imposed on November 29, 1976, would con t inue un t il June 30. 1978. June 22. Withdrawal of the general preferential ta r i ff on rubber footwear was extended to December 31, 1979. June 23. An increase in the export price of na tu ral gas f rom Can$1.94 to US$2.16 a thousand cubic feet was announced. The increase would take effect on September 21. August 1. A 12-month quota, f rom March 1, 1977, was established on imports of bed sheets f rom Hong Kong. December 1. A three-year import quota was estab- lished on footwear, except for certain specific types, of about 32.5 million pairs annually. December 22. The global quota on clothing was extended f rom June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Cape Verde, the Cape Verde Escudo, which was maintained at par with the Portuguese escudo until February 28, 1977 when the latter was devalued and the Cape Verde escudo was not. The day-to-day rates for foreign currencies are fixed on the basis of the rates quoted by the Paris market on the same day. The rates of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central b ank) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were C.V. Esc 33.606 buying, and C.V. Esc 34.198 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transac- tions, including the surrender of foreign exchange pro- ceeds are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola, Guinea- Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, require the visa of the central bank, and are generally valid for 90 days but are renew- able. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of essential commodities such as foods tuffs, medicines, petroleum products, and construction materials. Imports of non- essentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authorization. Transfers for tourism are limited to a maximum of C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for children less than 15 years o ld ). When traveling accom- panied by his family, a Cape Verde resident may take out in foreign currency up to C.V. Esc 6,000 plus 1 Cape Verde is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 90 C.V. Esc 4,000 for each member less than 15 years old but the total transfer for each fam i ly may not exceed C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country and thereafter C.V. Esc 5,000 a month. The equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is author- ized for each business trip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a t r ip for medical treatment. These latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Trans- fers by foreigners who are technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contract. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident- owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports or re-exports of gold either in coins or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1977 June 11. A new scheme of import tariffs, enacted on April 13 (Decree No. 31 /77 ), came into force. July. Cape Verde became a member of the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r ican States. July 1. A new currency, the Cape Verde escudo, issued by the new central bank (the Bank of Cape Verde) replaced the former currency, the escudo, issued by the Banco Nacional Ultramarino. The new currency is at par with the old one. August 20. Medicines were exempted from import levies, under Decree No. 11 111, mod ify ing the taxation of specified imports. September 17. Import levies on vehicles for public transport were reduced to 1 per cent (Decree No. 90 /77). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of the Central A f r ican Empire has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of com- mission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. All remittances to non-BEAC countries are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent; the commission is appli- cable also to the purchase of banknotes. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central Afr ican Empire's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Central A f r ican Empire itself, are considered foreign countries. All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance (the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Public Treasury and Finance) who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securi- ties in the Central A f r ican Empire, and inward and ou tward direct investment. Exchange control is adm in- istered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval au thor i ty to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion. All exchange transactions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is try of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the BEAC. 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in the Central African Empire is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 The au tho r i ty delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the g r an t ing of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and ( 3) the con- trol over the repatriation of net export proceeds. Prescription of Currency The Central African Empire is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the cur- rencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities that are also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foodstuffs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not origi- na t ing in a member country of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC ), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EEC countries (the original member states) also are free from quantitative restric- tions. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing w i th in the framework of an annual import program. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Empire must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Empire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and, 92 if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Empire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Empire; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Empire, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance; unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Em- pire 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Empire must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central African Empire. Both the making and the liquidation of direct 3 Including those made through the intermediation of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Empire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Empire. * Including those made by companies in the Central African Empire that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Empire of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments, whether these are Central African Empire investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Empire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Empire requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Empire has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Empire, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Empire of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Empire and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authori- zation, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central Afr ican Empire, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Afr ican Empire of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Empire are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equip- ment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential treatment in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which con- siders the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treat- ments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommen- dation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central Afr ican Empire. Im- ports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized pur- chasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par va lue or cen tral ra te for the cu r rency of Chad has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc,1 which is o f f ic ia l ly m a i n t a i n ed at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange t ransac t ions in French f r an c s, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed ra te for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital t rans fe rs to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Terr i tor ies), and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Cen t ral A f r i c an Empire, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Chad itself, are considered foreign countries. The Office of the Minister of Finance, Bu i ld ings, and Supply supervises borrow ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign secu- rities in Chad, and inwa rd and ou twa rd d irect invest- men t; it also issues import and export au tho r iza t ions for gold. Exchange con trol is also adm in is tered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries must be effected through au thor ized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Economy, P lann ing, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC ma in ta ins an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun tr ies are usu- iThe CFA f r anc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des E ta ts de 1'Afr ique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, Cen tral A f r ican Empire, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 94 ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs th rough Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions per ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited free ly to Foreign Accoun ts in Francs ma in ta ined by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks, provided that the notes are mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent banks concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Imports f rom all sources of whea t, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other impor ts f rom coun- tries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC countries ( the original member s ta tes) other than France may be made free ly. All imports f r om non-EEC countries out- side the French Franc Area are sub ject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual import program. This pro- gram and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Minister of State in Charge of the Economy, P lann ing, and Transportation on the basis of proposals d rawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for im- ports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for impor ts of cotton textiles f rom coun tr ies with abnormal competitive advantages. In add i t ion, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom EEC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports f rom neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single im- porter may be made through compensation transactions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports f rom fore ign countries is permitted only for specified commodities and re- quires the prior approval of the Office of the M in is ter of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- m i t ted freely; those to other countries are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof i ts, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year; any for- eign exchange rema in ing af ter re turn to Chad must be surrendered. For business travel to fore ign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 400,000 a person a trip; the Office of the M in is ter of Finance, Buildings, and Supply may approve addi- tional amoun ts. Allocations for tourist and bus iness travel may not be combined. Travelers to fore ign coun- tries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into fore ign cur- rency BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained f rom the sale of fore ign means of pay- ments that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from fore ign assets, CHAD must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries are permitted freely. All fore ign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Chad. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on capital transfers to foreign countries, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad 2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad 3 require prior dec- laration to the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as a direct investment 2 Including those made through the intermediation of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad th at are directly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securi- ties whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 5 million. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minis- ter within 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, provided, how- ever, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or for- eign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privi- leges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of State in Charge of the Economy, Planning, and Transportation, who, af ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commis- sion. After an opinion has been given by that Commis- sion, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Finance, Buildings, and Supply and by the Direc- torate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domes- tic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Ex- ports (BAV IE ), which is a private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 32, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency is the Chilean Peso, which replaced the Chilean Escudo on September 29, 1975. Only the Cen- tral Bank of Chile, the Banco del Estado, authorized com- mercial banks, foreign exchange houses, brokers, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in the fore ign exchange marke t, and only on a spot basis. Except for exchange rates for the curren- cies of Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay wh ich may be established freely, exchange rates are set by the Central Bank and are adjusted periodically. On December 31, 1977 the exchange rate was Ch$27.96 per US$1. Commissions of 0.5 per cent are permitted on purchases and sales of exchange. The Cen- tral Bank issues, for sale to the public through the bank- ing system, bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dol- lars (certificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEPACS) which may be used for import payments or other paymen ts or as collateral for the opening of import letters of credit, but may not be used as a means of com- plying w i th the repatriation requirements for receipts from exports of goods and services. The certificates are valid for two years f rom the date of issue; w i th in this period, the Central Bank makes available to the owner or holder, upon his request, the sum in U.S. dollars stated on the certificate provided it is to be used for the afore-mentioned purposes. On or af ter their ma tur i ty date, the certificates are redeemable in pesos at the exchange rate preva i l ing on the due date. Banks and stockbrokers can purchase them f rom the Central Bank, either for the account of the ir cus tomers or the general public or for their own account, at the exchange rate in effect on the date of issue, plus such premium or minus such discount as may be established by the Central Bank, plus a 2 per mill commission charge. Chile forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, w i th effect from Ju ly 27, 1977. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of In terna t ional Transactions of the Central Bank are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some func t ions of the Foreign Trade Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper indus t ry has been delegated to the Chilean Copper Committee, which is supervised by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela (except those in respect of specified commodities and any imports valued at less than US$1,500 f.o.b. which are effected under a simplified registration pro- cedure) must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the frame- work of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Settle- ments w i th the Dominican Republic must be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Certain pay- ments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and imports of military equipment from South Africa are prohibited. There is a List of Prohibited Imports, which contains only a few commodities. Used automobiles, new trucks, buses, and taxis may be considered as effectively prohibited for private importation since, although not on the List of Prohibited Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Except for used cars, the importation of these commodi- ties is exempted from the deposit if authorized by the Ministry of Transportation and the Central Bank. There is also a list of goods whose importation requires prior authorization by the Ministry of National Defense. Goods may normally be imported in any amount. Prior to shipment, all imports valued at over US$1,500 f.o.b. must be registered with the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications but currently is not exercising this authority. Imports of goods subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, Chiloe, and Punta Arenas, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities ( inc lud ing automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone.1 Importers may purchase spot exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved, and the shipping documents have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. or f.o.b. value, depending on the terms of the transaction, and all imports are subject to a mar i t ime tax of 3 per cent on the freight costs; the registration tax is offset against the applicable import duty. Value-added tax is levied at 20 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value and import duty. Payments for Invisibles Central Bank authorization is required only for those payments for invisibles that are in excess of the estab- 1 The import privileges of the "free port" zones are being phased out. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE lished limits, and for transactions for which no basic allocation has been set. The established l im it for tourist travel ( in addition to fares) is the equivalent of US$ 1,000 a person a tr ip for travel to neighboring countries and the equivalent of US$3,000 for travel to other countries. Banks may sell up to US$120 a person a mon th for pay- ment of insurance premiums contracted prior to Ju ly 23, 1974 in foreign currency w i th national insurance com- panies or w i th foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. Transfers of other insu rance prem iums are freely permitted through the commercial banks. Other established l im i ts include those for s tudy abroad. At the end of 1977 the basic allocation for fam i ly remittances remained suspended. Transfers in excess of the limits and those in respect of transac t ions for which no basic allocation has been announced require the prior authori- zation of the Central Bank. The au thor iza t ion is pro- vided upon presentation of appropr ia te documentation. For some invisibles the Central Bank must approve a t rans fer application (solicitud de giro); the on ly docu- mentation required for invisibles that are not covered either by the approval au thor i ty delegated to authorized commercial banks or by a solicitud de giro, is an appli- cation form (carta petition) addressed to the Central Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean na t iona l i ty and residents of fore ign na t iona l i ty who have spent more than a year in Chile, when trave l ing to coun- tries outside La t in America, are required to pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the value of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian reasons, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South A f r ica also are pro- h ib i ted. With the exception of three prohibited items and one item that is subject to quota, all commodities may be freely exported. All exports must be registered w i th the Foreign Trade Depar tment of the Central Bank (w i th the Chilean Cop- per Committee in the case of coppe r ), and the proceeds of exports are subject to surrender requ iremen ts. Com- mercial banks are authorized to purchase certain foreign exchange proceeds spot f rom exporters. Receipts f rom exports of the large copper m ines must be deposited in a special fo re ign currency account at the Central Bank, and sales of fo re ign exchange to meet expenses in local currency mu st also be effected w i th the Central Bank. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated w i th in 150 days f rom the da te of sh ipmen t, and surrendered w i th in 10 days the rea f te r, but for specified goods this period is extended to a max i- mum of 480 days, depend ing on the commodity being exported. However, exporters are permitted to repur- chase up to 10 per cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, fore ign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. There are a number of exemptions, 98 however. These include the receipts of sh ipp ing and insu rance companies, proceeds f rom certain services ( inc lud ing royalties and copyright fees) and f rom fam i ly remittances, and generally, income earned abroad. In add i t ion, any rema in ing foreign exchange f rom travel allocations may be retained. Capital Capital inflows are free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, w i th the exception of the tak ing up of lines of credit w i th fore ign correspondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d i f- ferent arrangements depending on the purpose and type of the investment, as follows: ( 1) Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 of September 7, 1961, stipulates that capital brought into the coun try in the fo rm of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold free ly through authorized banks when the inves- tor ( ind iv idual or corporation, national or foreign) has registered w i th the Central Bank. Such capital can be repatriated only w i th the prior approval of the Central Bank, and not normally earlier than 24 mon ths a f ter the inf low took place.2 The interest rate mu st not exceed specified limits. Repatriation norma l ly is allowed only in accordance with the amor t iza t ion schedule established at the t ime of registration. Nevertheless, it is permissible to apply for extensions, which are gran ted for a m in i- mum period of 90 days. (2) Article 15 of the same decree provides that the Executive Committee of the Central Bank may authorize the use of foreign credit without any m i n im um period of repayment. The foreign exchange may be used for pay- ments abroad and is not required to be sold to the Central Bank. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of Ju ly 7, 1974 (mod if ied by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime both for fore ign exchange transfers and long-term capital invest- ment. Authorization to make a fore ign investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a f ixed- term contract con t a in ing und e r t ak ings regarding the t im ing of the investment program that will normally not exceed eight years for m in ing and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 m i l l ion may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Committee, except when connected w i th public utili- ties, commun ica t ions, and areas usually reserved for state enterprises. There are no l im i ta t ions on profit remittances. Capital may be repatriated a f t er three years. Foreign investors can opt for a 49.5 per cent total corporation income tax over a period of 10 years, or subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (curren t ly 48.5 per cen t ). The 2 Earlier repatriation is permitted, however, if the capital has rema ined in Chile for an average duration of at least 24 months. Use of the capital for the purpose of repaying debts to the bank ing system does not imply repatriation within a shorter period of t ime. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution contracts normally are for 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years in special cases. Any foreign credits involved must be authorized by, or registered with, the Central Bank. Foreign capital which entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 continues to be subject to the regulations preva i l ing on the date of en try but had to be registered w i th the Foreign Investment Committee w i th in a year f rom its promulgation. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any fo rm in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal forma l i t ies for import and export transactions, inc lud ing registration with the Central B ank. Changes during 1977 January 4. Circular No. 2611 established daily exchange rates for the period J anu a ry 5-February 4. The rate for the first day was set at Ch$ 17.57 per US$1 and for the last day it was Ch$18.63 per US$1. January 8. A new general reduction in import duties was introduced. January 20. Circular No. 2615 e l im ina ted the need for any prior au tho r iza t ion or cer t if ica t ion as a condition for registration of imports at the Cen tral Bank. February 4. Circular No. 2625 established daily exchange rates for the period February 5-March 4. The rate for the first day was set at Ch$18.67 per US$1 and for the last day it was Ch$ 19.75 per US$1. February 24. Circular No. 2628 authorized foreign transport compan ies to accept advance deposit paymen ts for the purchase of travel tickets. March 4. Circular No. 2631 established da i ly exchange rates for the period March 5-May 4. With effect f rom March 5 the Chilean peso was appreciated f rom Ch$19.75 per US$1 to Ch$17.77 per US$1; the exchange rate for April 4 was set at Ch$ 18.49 per US$1, and for May 4 it was set at Ch$ 19.04 per US$1. March 10. Under Circular No. 2633 the validity of export registrations prior to shipment was extended f rom 120 to 150 days; the t ime limit for surrender require- ments was raised f rom 90 to 150 days and the permitted prior financing period f rom 120 to 150 days. March 17. Circular No. 2636 modified the exchange system applicable to insurance companies. Users were authorized to contract insu rance and a system was established for conver t ing in to local cu r rency i n d em n i ty payments due to residents. Insurance companies were .authorized to draw on their foreign currency accounts to effect authorized payments. March 18. Circular No. 2637 modified the schedule of commissions on sales and purchases of fore ign exchange by authorized banks so that a commission of 5 per mill was allowed for all transactions. CHILE March 18. Decree-Law No. 600 of 1974 regulat- ing foreign investment was modified by Decree-Law No. 1748. Whereas, previously, contracts had been negotiated on a case-by-case basis, under the new a r rangemen ts repatriation of profits was no longer sub- ject to l im i ta t ion, and remittances of profits could be made freely. Repatriation of capital was permitted af ter three years. Foreign investors were given the option of paying a 49.5 per cent total corporate income tax for ten years or accepting the tax applicable to domestic corporations (approximately 48.5 per cent at the time of the mod if ica t ion). April 14. Circular No. 2648 authorized banks to sell fore ign exchange directly to exporters, w i thout previously consulting the Central Bank, for transportation charges for exports sold on a c.i.f. or c. & f. basis. May 4. Circular No. 2655 established the new list of daily exchange rates for the period May 5-June 4. The established ra te for the first day was Ch$ 19.07 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$ 19.94 per US$1. June 3. Circular No. 2666 established the new list of da i ly exchange rates for the period June 5-July 4. The established exchange rate for the first day was Ch$ 19.97 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$20.70 per US$1. June 9. The brokers' exchange market was forma l ly abolished. Previously, there were two markets, the bank- ing ma rket and the brokers' market, although their rates had been identical since August 25, 1975. Transactions through the brokers' ma rket were confined to outward payments in respect to obligations re su l t ing f rom earlier capital flows. June 23. Circular No. 2678 modified the exchange regulations on insurance payments abroad, by extending the export insurance legislation to transactions with for- eign insurance companies, and authorizing transactions of domestic insurance companies in re insurance pools w i th other foreign companies. July 1. Circular No. 2684 modified and simplified the requ iremen ts for remittances of capital and interest payments. All foreign credits would require the authori- zation of the Central Bank. The requirement of Decla- ration of Origin of domestic currency for capital re-exportation and interest payments abroad was abol- ished. In accordance with the modification to Decree- Law No. 600 that was introduced on March 18, the m in imum period required for re-exportation of capital, other than for foreign credits, was increased to 36 months. In addition, the new legislation allowed foreign investors to ma in ta in their authorized remittances abroad in the form of domestic deposits. Also, all regulations related to the renegotiation of foreign debt were abolished. July 4. Circular No. 2683 established the new list of da i ly exchange rates for the period Ju ly 5-August 4. The established exchange rate for the first day was Ch$20.72 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$21.38 per US$1. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE July 27. Chile formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. August 4. Circular No. 2701 established the new list of daily exchange rates for the period August 5-Sep- tember 4. The established exchange rate for the first day was Ch$21.40 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$22.22 per US$1. August 25. The final reduction in import duties, to the target levels initially set for 1978, was announced by Decree No. 775 of the Ministry of Finance. August 25. By Circular No. 2706 the exchange rate was depreciated by 5.8 per cent to Ch$23.29 per US$1, with effect from August 26, thereby mod ify ing the schedule established for the month. The new rate for the last day of the month (September 4) was set at Ch$23.56 per US$1. September 2. Circular No. 2710 established the new list of daily exchange rates for the period September 5- October 4. The established exchange rate for the first day was Ch$23.58 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$24.36 per US$1. October 4. Circular No. 2730 established the new list of daily exchange rates for the period October 5- November 4. The established rate for the first day was Ch$24.39 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$25.26 per US$1. October 10. Circular No. 2733 exempted from the 10,000 per cent prior deposit imports subject to that deposit that were already in the free zone or that had already been shipped to the free zone. November 4. Circular No. 2744 established the new list of daily exchange rates for the period November 5- December 4. The established rate for the first day was Ch$25.29 per US$1 and for the last day Ch$26.32 per US$1. November 17. Corporations in charge of the free zones were authorized to operate in foreign exchange with respect to transactions for services rendered to users, excluding leases, within the free zone. December 3. The Government announced that import duties were to be reduced to a level of 10 per cent by June 1979, with immediate effect for capital goods not produced locally. December 3. The Ministry of Finance announced a 4.2 per cent depreciation of the peso from Ch$26.23 per US$1 to Ch$27.39 per US$1. A list of daily exchange rates was announced for the period December 3, 1977- February 5, 1978. The exchange rate for the period ending January 5 was allowed to depreciate by 2.4 per cent, to Ch$28.05 per US$1. The rate for the month ending February 5 was set to depreciate by 2.9 per cent, to Ch$28.89 per US$1. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 2977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0204628 gram of fine gold per New Taiwan Dollar. On February 16, 1973, the Repub- lic of China established a central rate of NT$1 = SDR 0.0218144, corresponding at the time to 0.0193858 gram of fine gold per new Taiwan dollar or NT$38 = US$1, and availed itself of wider margins. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$37.95 and NT$38.05, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies 1 are also offi- cially posted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Currencies for which rates are not officially posted may be accepted by authorized banks ("appointed banks"), and the rates are calculated in accordance with foreign market quotations.2 With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. There is no exchange market. The appointed banks clear their exchange transactions with the Central Bank on the following business day. Forward cover facilities are limited to import and export transactions and to three of the officially posted curren- cies, i.e., deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies con- cerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the Minis- tries of Finance and Economic Affairs and the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank is respon- sible for the overall management of foreign exchange, for the determination of the official buying and selling rates of exchange, and for the supervision of the appointed banks. The Central Bank also licenses pri- vate remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Economic Affairs coordinates industrial and trade policies, including those relating to the import regime and export promotion, and is in charge of the issuance of import and export licenses. By delegation, the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses; for some goods, however, import applications and licenses are screened and issued by 21 appointed banks, including their branches. Export applications are screened, and export permits are issued, by 37 appointed 1 Australian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds ster- ling, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. 2 The conversion rate is ¥ 7.30 = NT$1 for Japanese banknotes. banks, including their branches. Most foreign exchange transactions are conducted through appointed banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dol- lars, deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Cur- rencies not officially posted may be accepted by appointed banks but must be converted into posted currencies in exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange in the form of any of the posted currencies for making payments to residents of foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts The Republic of China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are granted treatment not essentially d ifferent from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regula- tions do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Residents may ma in ta in accounts in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remit- tances from abroad or of money orders or other nego- tiable instruments drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Bal- ances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be withdrawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buying rate. Balances in For- eign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments 3 Most imports require individual licenses. Appointed banks have authority to screen import applications for most items on the permissible list (see below), to issue 3 Special regulations apply to imports into the three export processing zones. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA import licenses on behalf of the Board of Foreign Trade, and to make the necessary foreign exchange available; these goods are automatically approved for an import license. For other commodities subject to license, license applications are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center of the Board of Foreign Trade. The holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange f rom an appointed bank. Importers of goods on the permissible list may enter into contracts on documents against payment (D/P), documents against acceptance (D /A ), or usance letter of credit terms (credit terms of less than 180 days may be approved by appointed banks, while longer terms require approval by the Central Bank). For imports on a letter of credit basis, an exchange settlement corresponding to 15 per cent of the letter of credit must be made w i th in 28 days of approval of the license; for bulk imports specially approved by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, the settle- ment requirement is 10 per cent. This advance settle- ment requ iremen t, the so-called performance deposit, is a condition for the issuance of a letter of credit. Imports f rom communist countries are prohibited in principle, although imports of bulk goods, indu s t r ial raw materials, and many consumer goods f rom any source other than the People's Republic of Ch ina are now being licensed. The authorities license and check imports f rom Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain cer- ta in imports direct from the coun try of production and to control imports from the People's Republic of Ch ina; in addition, certain commodities are not permitted to be imported f rom Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, and Singapore. Imports from Japan of color television sets and many types of scrap metal are prohibited. Applica- tions for imports from Japan of machinery va lued at over US$200,000 for each individual order require the approval of the Board of Foreign Trade. Imports of 910 items on the permissible list (see below) are allowed on ly when the goods originate in Western Europe, the United States, or Canada. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The proh ib i ted imports comprise narcotics, other goods considered socially undesirable, and a wide range of pharmaceu- ticals. The controlled list comprises arms and ammun i- tion, ships, poisonous chemicals, a number of luxu ry goods and less essential items (such as certain Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, certain medicines, tea, sugar and its substitutes, molasses, made-up clothing, consumer durables, antiques, certain jewelry, gold, and silver) and goods subject to domestic regulation and allocation. The first category is licensed restrictively; 4 goods of the second type are often imported by govern- ment agencies, which offer them for sale either by 4 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities, e.g., hotels for the tour ist t rade. 102 allocation or by auction. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domestic distribution of these commodities. Goods on the permissible list are licensed l ibe ra l ly and can be impor ted by both end users and traders. Items on the controlled list may be imported only by fac to r ies and end users. M anu f a c tu r e rs app ly ing for licenses for raw materials are encouraged to give preference to locally produced supplies. On December 31, 1977, of 15,369 classified import items, 13 were on the prohibited list, 419 were on the controlled l is t, and 14,937 were on the permissible list. A general (covering) licensing procedure applies in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, m a n u f a c t u r e rs and other direct end users are granted authorization annu a l ly for the importation of listed items specified by va lue and by quan t i ty. Exchange for such imports is ob ta inab le au toma t ica l ly each time the importer presents the general approved license at an appointed bank. Furthermore, an automatic approval system is applied to most items on the permissible list; on December 31, 1977, only 152 items on the permissible l ist requ i red approval by the Board of Foreign Trade, while all others could be impor ted under the automatic approval system. Under this system, importers may obtain fore ign exchange at any appointed bank by sub- m i t t ing impo rt licenses which are au toma t ica l ly approved. On December 31, 1976, the system applied to 14,628 items, and on December 31, 1977, to 14,942 items. Special regulations apply to seven commodities nor- ma l ly imported in bu lk sh ipmen ts .5 These commodities are sub ject to a n n u al quotas and p r io r i ty must be given to Chinese flag vessels for the ir impo r t a t ion. Depending on the intended use, goods may be im- ported by one of the three m a in groups of importers: government trad ing agencies, qua l i f ied private traders, and end users and m anu f a c tu r e r s. The impo rt of crude oil is restricted to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation. The Central Trust of China is the ma in government trad- ing agency, hand l ing imports for government and mili- tary organizations, public enterprises, and other custom- ers. Another government trad ing agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a m in imum capi- tal of NT$2 million and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$200,000 in the previous year. End users and manu fac tu re rs are permitted to impo rt raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In gran t ing licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into 5 Soybeans and soybean flour, whea t, ba r ley, corn, sorghum, rapeseed, and raw cotton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution account such criteria as production capacity and equip- ment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to require- ments (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the produc- tion of plywood). According to the methods of f inanc ing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated out of official exchange reserves and (2) imports made w i thout recourse to official exchange reserves that are paid for w i th self- provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Repub l ic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempt f rom the surrender requirement. Imports are subject, in addition to customs duty, to harbor dues of 4 per cent of the customs value and, for some goods, to a commodity tax of 5-120 per cent ad valorem assessed on the import value inclusive of cus- toms duties and harbor dues. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles requ ire approval f rom the Central Bank. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade, such as freight and insurance premiums, are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The t rans fer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign inves tmen ts in the Republic of China may be made w i thout restriction. Residents may at any time make ou tward t rans fe rs up to the equivalent of US$500 sem iannua l ly for any purpose other than import payments; applications for such personal remit- tances are approved automatically. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 60 per cent of their monthly salary. In cases where the salary is exempt f rom income tax under the certificate of tax exemp t ion (or the income tax is borne by the employer) and /or liv- ing expenses of the employee are borne by the employer, the amount to be remitted may be increased by 20 per cent. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news serv- ices, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are also approved. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers REPUBLIC OF CHINA and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rentals may be trans- ferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses. The remittance of the earnings of foreign entertainers may be approved on a case-by-case basis. The full amount of tuition and living expenses dur ing the first academic year of students studying abroad may be remitted, and up to US$4,000 a year in the second to sixth academic years, but may be applied for only three times during the five years. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$1,200 a person a trip (US$600 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel; visas for tourist travel, however, are not normally granted to Chinese nationals. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$1,500 a mon th for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on the ir merits. Residents leaving the Republic of Ch ina may take with them no more than NT$2,000 in domestic banknotes and 20 coins and the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign cur- rencies. Nonresident travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency by subm i t t ing evidence of previous conversion into local currency. Exports and Export Proceeds G All exports require licenses, ma in ly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to noncommun ist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted a f ter they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trad ing agencies. Under the terms of "voluntary export restraint" agree- ments concluded with certain countries, quota limitations are maintained on exports of canned mushrooms and asparagus, stainless flatware, textile products, and non- rubber footwear. The export of some foods tu f fs, as well as of fer t i l izers, logs, cement, steel, and scrap of iron and steel, is either prohibited or controlled. Manufac turers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials, after the processed goods are exported. These charges include import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers subm it sa t isfac tory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to sur- render exchange earnings accruing f rom exports immedi- 6 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the export processing zones. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA ately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the va lue of US$500 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic prod- ucts valued up to US$500 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro- ceeds from invisibles are generally s im i lar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and originally approved by the Investment Commission of the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, must be surrendered to the banks; otherwise, earn ings may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit in a fore ign exchange account. Travelers may bring in any amoupt of foreign cur- rency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes is limited to NT$4,000 for each traveler; a license f rom the M in is try of Finance is required for impo r t ing a larger amoun t. Capital Investments by nonresidents ( inc lud ing overseas Chi- nese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Repub- lic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law and the Statute for the Encouragement of Invest- ment, new foreign investments approved by the authori- ties are guaranteed (1) unrestricted t rans fer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, two years af ter completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent, calculated in relation to the invested fund s; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original form; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for indus tr ial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent of the total investment. In addition, foreign invest- ments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for addi- tional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises such as mining, communications, and manu fac tu r ing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or import- substituting goods. 104 Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign invest- ment laws described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Purchases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufac tured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Appli- cations that receive sympathetic treatment include those which would assist in assuring a stable supply of raw materials for domestic industries. Portfolio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not nor- mally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and fore ign persons who have settled in the Republic of China and wish to re turn to their native countries, are not accorded any t rans fer facilities in respect of proceeds f rom the liquidation of their assets in the Republic, other than an exchange allowance of US$2,000 for each Chinese emigrant. Persons residing outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, and g i f ts are not normally granted the right of transferr ing them from the Republic. Certain inflows of short-term capital are restricted or prohibited. Domestic banks are permitted to hold short- term deposits (with maturities up to three months) with their correspondents but they are not normally permitted to make longer-term deposits abroad or to acquire for- eign securities. Gold Producers of gold must sell their output to registered goldsmiths, silversmiths, or jewelers through the Central Trust of China; gold delivered to the Central Trust for refining must have a fineness of 0.995 or better. Any newly produced gold that remains unsold must be kept in the custody of institutions specifically designated by the Government; at present, only the Central Trust is so designated. Other residents may hold gold in any fo rm and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is prohibited. Travelers may bring in any amount of gold, which must be declared upon entry if its weight exceeds 5 shih Hang, i.e., 156.25 grams; other imports of gold are controlled. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Otherwise, exports of gold and gold jewelry by travelers are not normally permitted. Changes during 1977 January 1. The limit on outward foreign exchange transfers that residents may make for any purpose other than import payments was set at the equivalent of US$500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for every 6-month period; previously, the l im it was the equivalent of US$250 for every quarter. March 1. The rate of the contribution tax on all types of imported beef was raised to NT$12 a pound. April 1. The interest rates on foreign currency time deposits with maturities of 6 and 12 months were reduced from 6 per cent and 7 per cent a year to 5.5 per cent and 6 per cent a year, respectively. June 14. An Orderly Marketing Agreement covering exports of nonrubber footwear was concluded w i th the United States. Under the Agreement, the Republic of China agreed to apply restraints on such exports to the United States in accordance with the following schedule: June 28, 1977-June 30, 1978, 122 million pairs; July 1, 1978-June 30, 1979, 125 million pairs; Ju ly 1, 1979- June 30, 1980, 128 million pairs; and July 1, 1980- June 30, 1981, 131 million pairs. July 20. The limit on foreign currencies which resi- dents leaving the Republic of China were allowed to take with them was raised from the equivalent of US$600 to US$1,000. July 26. The Statute for the Encouragement of Invest- ment was extensively revised. Ma jor revisions included: (1) investors in capital-intensive and technology-based industries were permitted to delay the introduction of the existing five-year tax holiday by one to four years f rom the start of operations; (2) with effect f rom January 1, 1977 the rate of profit tax payable by a productive enter- prise was reduced from 30 per cent annually to 25 per REPUBLIC OF CHINA cent; (3) the rate of profit tax was fu r ther reduced by 10 percentage points for three consecutive years for those productive enterprises that made public issues of registered stock on the stock market. August 8. The limit on the export value of gifts and samples of goods was raised f rom the equivalent of US$200 to the equivalent of US$500. August 20. New Enforcement Instructions to improve the investment climate were promulgated. The salient changes were ( 1) the limit on the amount of capital that might be repatriated two years a f ter completion of the investment was raised from 15 per cent of the value of the investment to 20 per cent; (2) certain enterprises were granted, duty-free import privileges for importing plant and equ ipment that was not produced domestically; and (3) there would be provision for greater tax incentives for enterprises undergoing mergers. September 13. Manufacturers and certain other direct end users were granted annual authorization for the importation of certain items on the controlled list; previ- ously, such authorization was granted only for 6 months. Licenses continued to be required. October 16. The rate of the contribution tax on all types of imported beef was reduced to NT$9.50 a pound. October 29. Short-term foreign borrowing for the purpose of financing working capital requirements in domestic currency was suspended. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central b ank) or the authorized banks. Exchange certificates are traded in the official market— the exchange certificate market —in which the ra te fluctuates, or in a private market at vary ing rates of discount. On December 31, 1977, the average selling rate in the official certificate market was Col$37.96 per US$1, while certificates at the stock exchange were traded at Col$35.21 per US$1. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$38 per US$1; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. There are other effective exchange rates, which result from (1) the imposition of an exchange tax on the surrender of coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates being granted at different rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of a discount on most exchange proceeds; (4) three deposit requirements which have to be fulfilled, wholly or partly, at the certifi- cate market rate in the official marke t; and (5) the imposition of remittance tax at two d ifferent rates on certain payments for services. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell ex- change warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate ruling on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, pro- vided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warran ts may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buying rate ruling on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at 7 per cent per annum. Warrants held until af ter ma tu r i ty cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate ruling on the maturity date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade ( !NCOMEX ). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange 106 licenses. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, af ter setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obliga- tions of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Coun- cil (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, con- trols imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Depart- ment, which evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign invest- ment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds f rom certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration w i th the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any viola- tion of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies which it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and ex- porters are also free to use Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. Settlements with Bulgaria, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Yugoslavia for commercial transactions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance with the pro- visions of the particular bilateral payments agreement. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. There are also reciprocal credit agree- ments with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and member countries of the Central American Common Market. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency f rom physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonres iden ts, banks must obtain au thor iza t ion from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classified either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX, or as goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National Free List applicable to LAFTA countries only, and a free list applicable only to member countries of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonre imbursab le imports. The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports financed from Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed with foreign credit; they inc lude imports under bilateral payments agreements and those that are settled through multilateral clearing accounts. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants, commodities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. A number of imports are subject to price control applied by the Division of In te rna t ional Prices of INCOMEX. Import licenses for certain items are not norma l ly issued; these include arms and hab i t - fo rm ing drugs, certain food- stuffs, certain textiles and garments, jewe lry, and a number of other consumer goods. Prior registration of the import transac t ion at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments w i th an f .o.b. va lue of less than US$100. Reg is tra t ion is not au toma t ica l ly accepted by INCOMEX and may be rejected. The charge for impo rt registration is Col$200 plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue (w i th a m in imum of US$4 ). Advance import payments deposits (depositos anticipados para pago de importaciones) in Colombian currency of 35 per cent of the registered amount must be made w i th an authorized bank before customs clearance in order to obtain exchange licenses. Up to 10 percentage points of the deposit requirement can be settled w i th exchange certificates obtained in the stock marke t. The balance of the advance import payments deposit is calculated on the total value of the goods, at the current selling rate for exchange certificates. In exchange, importers receive nonnegotiable, interest-free deposit certificates for for- eign payments (titulos de de posit o para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 24 months. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial payment of the import transac t ion (w i th in any maximum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the original exchange rate in the certificate marke t. COLOMBIA The following are exempt from advance import pay- men ts deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo P lan ); foods tu f fs for direct consumption; direct imports for the m i l i tary and the police; imports f rom Eastern Europe and Spain; imports from countries with which recipro- cal credit arrangements are in force (LAFTA countries, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and member countries of the Central American Common M a rk e t ); imports financed with loans from international organizations; books, newspapers, and magazines; and capital goods and raw materials. There is also an advance deposit (consignation) which has to be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. The rates of deposit are 40 per cent for products for immediate use (including raw materials and con- sumer goods) and 60 per cent for other import pay- ments. If the transaction is also subject to the advance import payments deposit (deposito anticipado para pago de importaciones), the 40 per cent and 60 per cent rates must be lodged on the fu ll amount of the trans- action. Imports financed with special credit lines f rom the Bank of the Republic are exempt f rom advance payment deposits as are funds from the national budget, and payments made with Coffee Savings Bonds. A prior exchange license issued by the Exchange Office is required for payments for imports. Most reimburs- able imports are subject to max imum payment terms; these generally are five months for consumer goods and raw materials ( f o ur months if financed abroad) and three years or five years for capital goods. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Fi- nance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- m ined by the Ministry of F inance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities; goods of LAFTA o r ig in; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, con- sular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Government. All imports are subject to a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange cer- tificate rate. Advance deposits must be made prior to applying for exchange licenses at a rate of 80 per cent for freight payments for imports and at a rate of 60 per cent for all other invisibles. Payments made with Coffee Savings Bonds are exempt from the deposit requirements. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institu- tions without prior exchange license; commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel; banks may also transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles (including freight payments, banking commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, and the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support) and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Exchange allocations for travel abroad are usually limited to US$60 a person a day, not to exceed US$2,100 a year, but these limits may be raised to US$200 a day and US$18,000 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country. Transfers to professional and technical persons undertaking courses abroad are gen- erally restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other students the ceilings range up to US$500 a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Remittances for the support of relatives abroad are limited to US$250 a month for each bene- ficiary. The Exchange Office, however, is empowered to grant larger allocations. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 per cent of the in- vestment per annum. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. A remittance tax of 12 per cent is applicable to a num- ber of current payments; for transfers of profits, the tax is 20 per cent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are re- quired to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for IDEMA. No export licenses are required. Prior application for registration, however, is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any fund s) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate, to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export; and (2) for other goods, generally within 270 days of registration. However, longer terms are permitted for goods sold on a commission basis, capital goods, and 108 other goods that normally require more extended pay- ment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange pro- ceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surren- dered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL is per- mitted to retain part of its export proceeds abroad for the settlement of its imports. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario or CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This ratio is 0.1 of 1 per cent, 5 per cent, or 8 per cent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for exports under the Vallejo Plan. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six months after issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the stock exchange. In the case of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of coffee, cotton, flowers, live cattle, beef, gems, and precious metals, a discount of 10 per cent is applied if the certificates are presented to the banking system for redemption within 90 days of issue. Certificates issued against export proceeds from other minor exports are redeemed by PROEXPO without that discount. Minimum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board.1 Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: (1) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insurance, at US$313.75 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 17 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Growers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. (3) Exporters must either surrender without payment in the form of untreated coffee the equivalent of 80 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 *At the end of 1977, soluble coffee was subject to a minimum sur- render price of US$10 per kilogram. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio t a x ); the tax must be paid, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) Exporters receive Coffee Savings Bonds with a face value of Col$4 per kilogram bought by the National Federation of Coffee Growers; these bonds bear interest at 18 per cent per annum and have a ma tu r i ty of three years. (6) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Manag ing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buy ing price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange certificates which can be sold in the stock exchange. If they are sold to the banking system within 90 days of issue a discount of 10 per cent is applied. For surrenders in respect of gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization f rom the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 60 per cent advance payment deposit on all outflows which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. The following are exempt f rom the deposit requ iremen t: payments made with Coffee Savings Bonds and certain advance repayments of registered private sector debt, including debt contracted to finance capital goods imports. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new fore ign loans, direct lines of fore ign credit obtained by non- bank residents,2 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports also require prior approval by the Na t ional P lann ing Depart- ment, capital for the petroleum indus try or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is limited to 20 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beg inn ing w i th profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting f rom investments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years; where the profits were obtained (and not remitted) prior to the coming 3 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all n a tu re also requ ire registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime ra te or the London interbank offered rate. COLOMBIA into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the addi- tional remittances must not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from any advance deposit and import license requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Following a transitional period ending on June 30, 1978, all foreign banks and their branches must have Colombian majority participation. In this respect, "subregional" participations (i.e., from member countries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian participations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact and to "national" or "mixed" companies. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or estab- lished companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a m in imum ma tur i ty of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London in terbank offered rate. Such loans normally are per- mitted only when m in ing companies are involved or ju r id ical persons who are established in Colombia and are contributing to the construction of public works of na t ional interest as representatives of foreign firms. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign cur- rency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Govern- ment, the following are also required: prior authoriza- tion by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the bene- ficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquida- tion of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes only. With this exception, the Bank of the Republic alone is entitled to 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at US$42.2222 an ounce and pays 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital m in ing companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repay- ments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. When selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 8 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in pesos at their market value. The Bank of the Republic pays producers a premium to offset the difference between the interna- tional price and the official gold price. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad du r ing the previous month; this price is translated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and ref in ing houses and the mining com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1977 The changes in the M in is try of Finance exchange rate for the U.S. dollar during 1977 were as follows: Until January 4, Col$35.83; Janua ry 5-February 4, Col$36.20; February 5-March 4, Col$36.39; March 5-April 4, Col$36.40; April 5-May 4, Col$36.49; May 5-June 4, Col$36.53; June 5-July 4, Col$36.37; July 5-August 4, Col$36.25; August 5-September 4, Col$35.49; Septem- ber 5-October 4, Col$34.61; October 5-November 4, Col$34.84; November 5-December 4, Col$35.41; and December 5-January 4, 1978, Col$35.15. January 1. In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 2374 of October 31, 1974, the penultimate reduction of 1 percentage point on the exchange tax on coffee ex- ports took effect. The rate for 1977 was 17 per cent. January 1. Under Decree No. 2091 the rates on tax credit certificates (CATs) were altered and changes were made in the scope of the system. The highest rate of 8 per cent (previously, 7 per cent) was applied to about 2,000 manu fac tu red items ( inc lud ing gold) and about 300 agricultural and livestock items. A rate of 5 110 per cent was applicable to meat, fish, shellfish, unpro- cessed wood, cotton yarns and textiles, and potatoes. A small number of items, including cattle, bananas, tobacco, cotton, tires, and boxes were eligible for CATs at the rate of 0.10 per cent. January 11. Rules were liberalized with regard to baggages of passengers. Travelers could bring into the country duty-free up to US$100 worth of goods every three months. Travelers returning af ter an absence of 15 days to eight months could bring in up to US$1,000 worth of goods included in a list, but would be required to pay duty. January 14. The Ministry of Education issued more liberal guidelines for exchange entitlements for t ra in ing abroad. Students became, inter alia, entitled to exchange for living expenses up to US$500 a month. January 17. With effect from February 20, all imports f rom Chile were subjected to the national customs tar iff applicable to third countries, notwithstanding the ad- vantages granted to that country under the Treaty of Montevideo (Decree No. 072). January 25. INCOMEX Resolution No. 043/76 was amended by the addition of capital goods from countries that are not members of the Andean Pact, and with which Colombia maintains multilateral clearing accounts, to the list of capital goods eligible for import financing at up to five years' ma tur i ty ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 001). January 25. The export quota on sisal bags was lifted (INCOMEX Resolution No. 005). January 27. Decree No. 170 relaxed the provisions governing foreign investment in Colombia in the light of the Decisions Nos. 103, 109, and 110 of the Andean Pact Commission. Under the Decree, subregional in- vestors (i .e ., investors f rom a member coun try) are treated as na t ional investors provided profits and liqui- dation proceeds would be remitted to the country of origin and that subregional participations would not be sold to fore ign investors. The max imum transfer of profits acc ru ing to foreign investors was raised f rom 14 per cent to 20 per cent. The au toma t ic reinvestment in fore ign firms was raised from 5 per cent to 7 per cent of profits. Foreign firms were granted access to domestic credit up to three years' ma tu r i ty. Foreign investors were also permitted to increase their participation in "national" or "mixed" enterprises provided that the latter remain at least "mixed." February 1. The M in is try of Finance announced a penalty interest of 5 per cent a month on the amounts of external debt amortized on terms in excess of the maximum limits set by the Monetary Board (Decree No. 212 ). February 2. A marginal reserve requirement of 100 per cent was introduced on the excess of most deposit categories (including foreign banks' deposits in national currency) beyond their January 31 levels. The deposit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requirement could be fulfilled by banks' funds used in rediscount operations with various special fund s, includ- ing the Export Promotion Fund (Mone tary Board Reso- lution No. 2). February 2. The reserve requirement on foreign cur- rency liabilities was raised from 6 per cent to 18 per cent. The increase became effective in monthly steps of 2 percentage points beginning March 1 (MBR No. 3; see also MBR No. 5/77 of February 9 ). February 9. The ceiling on the credit institutions' foreign exchange positions was raised fu r ther f rom 4 per cent to 6 per cent of their total foreign exchange liabilities. The renewable three-month foreign currency deposits which the Bank of the Republic may make with a credit institution remained limited to twice the latter's net foreign asset position, while the additional limit of 20 per cent of the credit institution's short-term foreign liabilities introduced by MBR No. 54/76 was deleted. The reserve requirement for deposits f rom the Bank of the Republic remained at Col$5 per US$1 (MBR No. 6). On March 25, the Exchange Office an- nounced guidelines for obtaining exchange licenses to increase foreign exchange positions to 6 per cent of foreign exchange liabilities (General Circular No. 18). February 9. MBR No. 5/77 amended MBR No. 66/76 and MBR No. 3/77. The 6 per cent reserve requirement was maintained on the first US$2.5 million of a bank's foreign exchange liabilities. For such liabili- ties in excess of US$2.5 million, which were not subject to the 100 per cent marginal reserve requirement under MBR No. 66/76 and 67/76, the reserve requirement was to be increased by 2 percentage points a month, beginning March 1, up to 12 per cent. February 10. The m in imum surrender price for cof- fee exports was increased f rom US$307.60 to US$331.00 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect f rom February 11 (MBR No. 7). February 16. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was increased f rom US$331.00 to US$354.00 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect f rom Feb- ruary 17 (MBR No. 8 ). It was fu r ther raised to US$376.50 by MBR No. 10 of February 23 and to US$423.00 by MBR No. 11 of February 25. February 23. The Exchange Office was authorized to reregister until July 31 private external debts whose maturities had expired, in order to ensure their service payments. The Exchange Office was also authorized to register the extension of ma tur i ty of expired loans pro- vided that no less than 10 per cent of the principal had been amortized prior to registration (MBR No. 9 ). March 2. A Coffee Fund for National Development was established by Decree No. 460 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. All exchange surrenders in excess of US$331 per 70-kilogram bag of coffee were to be converted into exchange wa r ran ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio). Their peso equivalent was COLOMBIA to be used to finance high-priority development projects for which there were no internal sources of financing. March 2. Prior to its sale to the Bank of the Republic or to authorized banks, exchange stemming from the following transactions had to be registered with the Exchange Office: (1) transfers to residents, except those f rom Colombian citizens working abroad; (2) transfers involving the re turn of foreign exchange to Colombia; ( 3) t rans fe rs for professional services, except for medical or educational services; and (4) transfers for technical services, including royalties. March 2. Access to the US$50 million rediscount fac i l i ty established by MBR No. 11/76 for the acquisi- tion of foreign-owned assets in Colombia was extended un t il June 30 (MBR No. 13). March 8. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was increased from US$423.00 to US$440.00 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect f rom March 9 (MBR No. 14 ). It was fur ther increased to US$457.00 per 70-kilogram bag by MBR No. 18 of March 22. March 8. Tea and electrical circuit breakers became subject to the prior licensing requirement (!NCOMEX Resolution No. 025). March 8. Sorghum was exempted from the advance import payment deposit (!NCOMEX Resolution No. 026). March 8. Certain ingredients for the production of an imal fodder were transferred from the list of prod- ucts subject to quota to the list of free exports. At the same time, glass bottles for soft drinks became subject to quota ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 027). March 16. Freight payments in connection with im- ports were added to the list of payments under MBR No. 59/75 for which no prior authorization from the Bank of the Republic would be necessary (MBR No. 16). March 29. The import of 22 customs items repre- senting textile products became subject to price control ( INCOMEX Postal Circular No. SI-24). March 30. The terms for access to the US$20 mil- lion rediscount facility established in 1973 in the Bank of the Republic to finance imports from East European countries with which Colombia ma in ta ins bilateral pay- ments agreements were made more favorable by raising rediscountable amounts to 100 per cent, by lowering the rediscount rate to 5 per cent per annum, and by increasing the maximum maturity for capital goods to three years. The interest rate was set at 9 per cent (MBR No. 21 ). April 2. The Bank of the Republic temporarily sus- pended the rediscount of bonds issued by the General Warehouse against imported rice and powdered milk (MBR No. 22 ). These operations were resumed on July 27 (MBR No. 48 of the same da te). April 6. A rediscount facility of Col$500 million was established in favor of PROEXPO. Credits extended up to ten years by Colombian exporters of capital goods could 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA be rediscounted up to 50 per cent, provided the credit was endorsed by a foreign bank of prime standing and originated f rom an irrevocable letter of credit. The Bank of the Republic's rediscount rate was fixed at 15 per cent, while the banks were permitted to charge 18 per cent. The facility was to become available one year after promulgation (MBR No. 23; see also MBR No. 39/77 of June 15). April 6. The export of rice was temporarily suspended (INCOMEX Resolution No. 037). April 6. The export of tires was prohibited, except for direct exports by their producers for whom the Foreign Trade Council was to fix export quotas (FTC Resolu- tion No. 038). April 12. The Superintendency of Banks issued regu- lations on the operation of foreign financial promoters (Resolution No. 1054). Promoters were required to register and to ma in ta in a permanent office in Colombia and were confined to promotional activities, i.e., they should refrain from financial intermediation operations proper or from soliciting funds for deposit abroad. April 12. The export of unshelled cottonseed was prohibited ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 039). April 13. The tariff on sorghum seed was lowered from 65 per cent to 1 per cent, while the tar iff on blow torches for welding was raised f rom 5 per cent to 65 per cent, in accordance with the Cartagena Agree- ment. April 13. Under MBR No. 25, all exchange proceeds had henceforth to be surrendered against exchange cer- tificates, noninterest-bearing negotiable bearer instru- ments denominated in U.S. dollars with six months' term to ma tur i ty from the day of issue. These certificates might be used at any date prior to their ma tur i ty to effect payments abroad. In the case of minor exports, the Bank of the Republic would acquire them on presentation at the prevailing certificate market exchange rate. In the case of certificates issued for exchange receipts f rom transactions other than minor exports, a 10 per cent discount would be applied if the certificates were pre- sented within 30 days of issue. In the case of services only, exchange receipts could be exchanged directly against pesos, subject to the 10 per cent discount. April 13. The m in imum surrender price for coffee was increased from US$457.00 to US$477.00 per 70- kilogram bag, with effect from April 14 (MBR No. 24 ). April 15. The ceiling on foreign development loans to the public sector or with its guarantee was raised from US$1 billion to US$1.2 billion (Law No. 18). April 20. The m in imum surrender price for exports of soluble coffee was raised f rom US$6 to US$10 per 1 kilogram (MBR No. 26 ). May 3. A new export regime was announced. Exports continued to be classified into five categories, with the following changes: (1) onions, tomatoes, toothpaste, soap, and several other items were added to the list of exports subject to approval by certain agencies; all such 112 exports now required prior approval from INCOMEX; (2) tires, notebooks, and glass bottles for soft drinks were added to cement to constitute the list of products that could be exported only by their producers, subject to quotas set by INCOMEX; and (3) the list of suspended exports was expanded by the inclusion of certain basic foods tuffs such as pork, poultry meat, fish, milk, butter, cheese, lentils, pineapples, oranges, lemons, rice, wheat and corn flour, chocolate, and salt (INCOMEX Resolution No. 051). May 4. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to rediscount up to 95 per cent of bank loans to state petroleum companies (i.e., ECOPETROL) for the purpose of covering the foreign exchange costs of investment projects up to the local currency equivalent of US$95 million. The rates of interest and rediscount were 20 per cent and 18.5 per cent per annum, respectively, and the max imum maturity was five years (MBR No. 28). May 10. The import duties on edible oils, tires, soap, glass plates, and office machinery were reduced. May 11. A payments deposit for obtaining exchange licenses for freight payments for imports was introduced at the rate of 80 per cent of the value of such payments, with effect f rom June 1. In exchange for the deposit, the transporting company would receive nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing import freight deposit certificates with a two-year term which could be used for freight payments abroad. If not so used, the deposit would remain frozen un t il the ma tu r i ty of the certificate when it would be released for pesos at the original rate (MBR No. 30). May 17. Wheat was transferred f rom the regime of imports requiring prior license to the regime of free imports ( INCOMEX Circular No. 059). May 25. Under MBR No. 33/77 the Bank of the Republic would apply a discount of 15 per cent (for- merly 10 per cent) to exchange certificates presented prior to the expiration of a period of 90 days (formerly 30 d ay s ). This discount was now also applied to exchange certificates issued against exchange surrendered from minor exports. At the same time PROEXPO was directed to acquire exchange certificates without apply- ing the discount if they originated f rom exports other than coffee, cotton, flowers, live cattle, beef, gems, and precious metals. A special rediscount line was arranged for that purpose in the Bank of the Republic. May 25. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was lowered from US$477.00 to US$466.50 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect from May 26 (MBR No. 31). May 25. The rate of interest on bank loans refinanced with resources of PROEXPO was reduced from 18 per cent to 13 per cent, of which 3 per cent would accrue to the commercial bank and 10 per cent to PROEXPO. PROEXPO could then refinance itself with the Bank of the Republic at 8 per cent (MBR No. 34). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 27. The storage and transportation of certain products that frequently were smuggled, such as sugar, rice, corn, live cattle, milk, cheese, timber, and tires, were reserved exclusively for IDEMA, or cooperatives and dealers expressly authorized by IDEMA (Presidential Decree No. 1194). This Decree was repealed by Presi- dential Decree No. 1691 of July 19. May 31. Imports of raw materials and parts for capi- tal goods to be produced or assembled in Colombia were granted the same payment terms as capital goods; such imports were also exempted from the advance im- port payment deposit (INCOMEX Resolution No. 068). May 31. Cheese, oats, and unshelled cottonseed were included among free exports (INCOMEX Resolution No. 063). June 8. The Exchange Office's authorization to grant exchange licenses for up to 95 per cent of freight on imports and exports, originally for a fixed term, was extended indefinitely. June 15. MBR No. 23/77 of April 6, which estab- lished an export financing facility of Col$500 million, was modified by the addition of new projects entailing the export of goods and services. Also, it was provided that 50 per cent of the operation could be refinanced by the Bank of the Republic, while the other 50 per cent would come from PROEXPO'S own resources. The maximum maturity remained at 10 years, but the inter- est rates were lowered for PROEXPO credits to 4 per cent per annum for credits up to 5 years and to 5 per cent per annum for credits over 5 years. The Bank of the Republic's discount rate for re f inanc ing up to 50 per cent of the operation was 13 per cent per annum (MBR No. 39). June 15. Customs duties were reduced on certain essential imports, including live cattle, beef, fuels, agri- cultural machinery, and some chemical products. June 15. The m in imum surrender price for exports of coffee was reduced f rom US$466.50 to US$415.00 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect from June 16 (MBR No. 38). June 20. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to acquire Coffee Savings Bonds at their nominal value if their proceeds were used to repay private registered for- eign debt at least 18 months in advance. Also, the Bank was authorized to accept export exchange surrender and make import payments in Canadian dollars (MBR No. 41). June 22. The max imum payment term af ter shipment for imports for immediate use, including raw materials and consumption goods, was reduced from six months to five months. If financed directly through banks abroad or foreign suppliers' credits, this term was fur ther short- ened to four months a f ter shipment. The max imum pay- ment terms for capital goods remained at three and five years. With effect f rom Ju ly 1, the advance import pay- ment deposit was raised from 30 per cent to 35 per cent of the value of the exchange license. It could COLOMBIA henceforth be used immediately for partial payment of the import liability, either for advance payments or for payments after customs clearance (MBR No. 43 ). June 27. Imports subject to price control were classi- fied into three categories: (1) items whose price was checked af ter approval of registration (mostly foodstuffs, raw materials, and intermediate products), (2) items with decentralized control on the basis of a maximum price list compiled by the Division of International Prices of INCOMEX; and (3) 180 items (mostly textiles and apparel) requiring prior consultation with the Divi- sion of International Prices. June 28. A number of imports, including corn, sor- ghum, and certain chemical and paper products, became subject to the prior licensing requirement (INCOMEX Resolution No. 078). July 5. The customs duty on caustic soda was reduced from 25 per cent to 1 per cent ad valorem. July 11. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was further reduced from US$415.00 to US$376.50 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect from July 12 (MBR No. 45). This price was reduced again to US$361.00 by MBR No. 47 of July 15. July 13. With effect from July 14, na tural or juridical persons were required to make an advance deposit (con- signation) with the Bank of the Republic prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit was 40 per cent for imports for immediate use, and 60 per cent for all other payments except freight pay- ments for imports which were subject to a special deposit (at that time, 80 per cent). Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing deposit certificates were issued to the depositor at the certificate market exchange rate in effect at the date of deposit, which could be any day prior to the date of application for the exchange license. The deposit certificate could be used in partial fulfillment of the payment obligation (MBR No. 46 ). It was later clarified that the advance deposit was not required for imports financed with special credit lines of the Bank of the Republic or with funds f rom the national budget; payments made with Coffee Savings Bonds were also exempt. (For fu r ther exemptions, see MBR No. 59/77 of September 21.) July 26. Wheat, fat and grease, and soybean and palm oil became subject to the prior licensing require- ment (INCOMEX Resolution No. 093). August 9. Certain fuels were transferred to the list of free imports (INCOMEX Resolution No. 097). August 17. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was fur ther reduced f rom US$361.00 to US$313.75 per 70-kilogram bag, with effect f rom August 18 (MBR No. 50). August 24. The maximum term for making payments for imports for immediate use that were financed by foreign suppliers' credits and secured by letters of credit was revised f rom four months to five months a f ter ship- 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA ment (MBR No. 52 ). The term remained at four months for other foreign financed imports for immed ia te use, as stipulated by MBR No. 43 /77 of June 22. September 1. Imports from Eastern Europe financed under the special credit line established by MBR No. 75/73 were exempt from the advance payment deposit (consignation). The share of total purchases of crude petroleum for domestic refining which is paid in U.S. dollars could be settled w i th exchange certificates obtained from the Bank of the Republic (40 per cen t) and with exchange certificates negotiated in the free market (60 per cent) (Exchange Office General Circu- lar No. 49). September 13. By Decision No. 120, the Commission of the Andean Pact adopted the sectoral program for the development of the automobile indus try in Andean Pact countries. Article 37 of the Decision stipulated that Colombia was to adjust its ta r i f fs on the items cov- ered by Decision No. 120 to the common external ta r i ff between December 31, 1981 and December 31, 1983. September 21. Gasoline imports by state enterprises were exempted f rom the advance import paymen ts deposit of MBR No. 53/76 (MBR No. 58 ). September 21. Additional exemptions were in tro- duced to the deposit requ irement (consignation) estab- lished by MBR No. 46/77. The new exemptions were ( 1) the servicing of external private debt registered in accordance w i th Articles 128 and 131 of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967 if repayment was made at least n ine months ahead of ma tu r i ty; ( 2) the payment of regis- tered direct lines of credit to finance the import of capital goods in accordance with Article 32 of Decree- Law No. 444 of 1967 if repayment was made at least 12 months ahead of ma tu r i ty; and (3) debt contracted from foreign suppliers or credit ins t i tu t ions in Colombia to finance imports of capital goods if repayment was to be made within 18 months of shipment (MBR No. 59 ). September 23. With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, the rates of tax credit certificates (CATs) granted on m inor exports were changed f rom 0.1, 5, and 8 per cent to 0.1, 5, 9, and 12 per cent. At the same time, eligible products were rearranged with a view to g ran t ing CATs at higher rates to labor-intensive industries and industries dominated by small and medium-sized firms, while prod- ucts for popular consumption were assigned lower rates in order to ensure adequate domestic supplies. In gen- eral, industrial products became eligible for CATs at 9 or 12 per cent of export value (or domestic value add ed ), while many agricultural and livestock products and gold became eligible for the 5 per cent rate. September 28. Congress authorized the Government to join the Andean Reserve Fund (Law No. 29 of November 14). The Andean Reserve Fund's objectives are ( 1) the extension of balance of payments support through credits or guarantees of credits by third parties; (2) the harmonization of exchange, monetary, and financial policies of member countries; and (3) the improvement of the l iqu id i ty of member countries' investments of international reserves. October 4. The Foreign Trade Council prohibited all imports of automobiles with engines of more than six cylinders. October 11. The importation or acquisition by the public sector of imported automobiles w i th more than 2 liters of piston displacement was prohibited (Decree No. 2382 of the M in is try of Economic Development). November 9. The Exchange Office was authorized to register fore ign loans under Article 128 of Decree-Law No. 444/67 to nonprofit organizations dedicated to health care and education (MBR No. 63 /77 ). November 16. The official discount on exchange cer- tificates held less than 90 days was lowered f rom 15 per cent to 10 per cent. At the same time, up to 10 percentage points of the 35 per cent advance import deposit (deposito anticipado) introduced by MBR No. 53 /76 could now be satisfied w i th exchange certificates obtained in the free market. In addition, it was announced that the 60 per cent advance payment deposit (consignation) need not be effected for the repayment of registered loans at least four months ahead of schedule, and for partial or total repayment of loans for capital imports that were made w i th in at most 32 months of shipment (MBR No. 64). November 30. The reduction to 5 per cent of the import du ty on capital goods, which had been in effect since May 1976, was extended un t il September 30, 1978 (Decree No. 2723 of the Ministry of Finance and Public C red i t ). December 2. Customs duties were reduced on imports of certain products originating in and shipped from some of the member countries of the Cartagena Agreement (Decree No. 2733 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). December 22. The accounting exchange rate of the Bank of the Republic was changed from Col$35 to Col$38 per US$1. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of the Comoros has been established with the Fund. The cur- rency is the Comoros Franc, which is issued by the Institute of Issue of the Comoros and is officially main- tained at the rate of CF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Ex- change rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not app ly to: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Ins t i tu te of Issue. The Department of the Plan, Finances, and Methods supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administra- tion. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department of the Plan, Finance, and Methods. Prescription of Currency The Institute of Issue ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comoros f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Rhodesian and South A f r ican origin and/ or provenance are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is Comoros became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 21, 1976. subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in Comoros banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions, exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds f rom ex- ports to foreign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. They must be surrendered by sale to the authorized bank not later than one month after collec- tion when received in a non-Franc Area currency. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected, and surrendered, if received in for- eign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Institute of Issue of the Comoros, the Bank of France, or any bank or institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are in principle free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other C9untries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries normally are permitted freely. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require prior authorization and are not normally permitted. Changes during 1977 July 15. A new agreement with France, revising the statute of the Institute of Issue came into effect. The currency system remained basically similar to that in effect elsewhere in the French Franc Area. The Institute of Issue of the Comoros continued to keep its liquid assets in an Operations Account with the French Treas- ury, on which it was, in principle, entitled to overdraft facilities in case of need and under certain conditions. France guaranteed the full convertibility of the Como- rian currency into French francs. Payments in other currencies continued to be made through Paris. It was also indicated that there were no restrictions on transfers between the Comoros and other parts of the French Franc Area. The limits on the Comorian Government's borrowing rights from the Institute of Issue of the Comoros were revised. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate for the currency of the People's Republic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. Payments to France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Adm in i s t ra t ion of Control, below), as well as the purchase of these countries' bank- notes and travelers checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 per cent, subject to a m in imum of CFAF 75; exempt are payments of the State, the Postal Adm in- istration, and the BEAC, the salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, the expenditures of official missions abroad, and the scholarships of persons s tudy ing or tra in- ing abroad. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for foreign exchange purchased by Diamond Purchase Offices, 0.50 per cent; these commissions are subject to a m in imum of CFAF 100. Administration of Control Payments to the fo l low ing countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories), and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Empire, Chad, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to con- trol. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the People's Republic of the Congo. The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central Afr ican Empire, Chad, and Gabon. by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is try of Com- merce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the People's Republic of China are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agree- ment.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All paymen ts to Portugal require the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. All settlements between the Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is per- mitted when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom all sources require prior authorization. For imports of v ir tua l ly all commodities f rom countries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC countries other than France such authorization is given freely. All im- ports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual impo rt program; the program also includes indicative quotas for a few commodities f rom EEC countries other than France. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a jo int quota is set for the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC ). Also outside the program are im- ports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral payments agreements and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (O FNACOM ). The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods origi- na t ing in any country outside the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized commodities o r ig ina t ing in EEC countries other than France are issued au toma t ica l ly. Imports f rom non-UDEAC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quan t i ty of the local product. 2 There are inoperative paymen ts agreements w i th Bu lgar ia and Nor th Korea. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles f rom the People's Republic of China. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Licenses for imports f rom coun- tries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized in te rmed ia ry; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au tho r i ty has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresi- dents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transac t ion has been approved. At the end of 1977 certain current paymen ts were in arrears. Residents trave l ing as tourists to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under t e n ), or CFAF 10,000 if the du ra t ion of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; add i t ional amoun ts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is proh ib i ted. There are special facilities for travelers to K inshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zai'rian banknotes. The transfer of the en t i re net salary of a foreigner work ing in Congo is pe rm i t ted upon pre- sentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account coun try may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 if less than 10 years of age) in BEAC banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zai're may freely take out up to a max imum 118 of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marke t ing Office for Agr icu l tural Products (Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles, or ONCPA ), and by the National Marke t ing Office for Timber (Off ice Congolais du Bois or OCB ). Proceeds f rom exports to fore ign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally w i th in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a mon th of the due date. All export transactions re la t ing to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amoun ts due f rom residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i th in a mon th of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treas- ury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Capital All capital movements between the Congo and Rho- desia are prohibited. Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, although subject to declaration; most investment operations and borrow- ing and lend ing between the Congo and these countries are subject to au thor iza t ion. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, fo re ign currency, and titles embody ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th author- ized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and ou tward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transac t ions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Direct investments abroad 3 requ ire the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or par t ial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo 4 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Congolese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days. Direct invest- ments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) borrow- ing backed by a guaran tee f rom the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Congo have pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonres iden ts requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount ou ts tand ing does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt f rom this requirement. The con trac t ing of loans that are free of au thor iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External F inanc ial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is sub ject to exchange control, and all lend ing in CFA f r a n cs to non- PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO residents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained f rom the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and ( 3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose ma tu r i ty is two years or less. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations w i th in 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved for- eign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferen t ial treatment. Gold By v i r tue of Decree No. 66 /236 of Ju ly 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the fo rm of coins, art objects, or jewe lry; however, they require the prior au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any fo rm, f rom or to any other coun try. Exempt f rom the latter requ i rement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BE AC and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c les ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. 3 Inc lud ing those made t h r o u gh fore ign companies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. 4 Including those involving the t ran s fer between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. Changes during 1977 January 20. U.S. ta r i ff concessions to the People's Republic of the Congo were w i thdrawn. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0859580 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon. The Central Bank of Costa Rica buys and sells exchange in the official market at fixed rates of 08.54 and 08.60, respectively, per US$1. Transactions with member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM), when settled through the Central American Clearing House, are effected at a uniform buying and selling rate of 08.57 per US$1. The Central Bank stands ready in principle to buy U.S. dollars forward at 90 days, at 0 8.39055 per US$ 1. Some transactions in foreign exchange, including settlements for current transactions, are effected through the San Jose Stock Exchange at rates close to the official market rate. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell foreign exchange that is not subject to mandatory sale to the bank ing system. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Gua tema la, Hon- duras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and trade- related invisibles must be made in Costa Rican colones through the Central American Clearing House. Pay- ments to and f rom Colombia in respect of commercial operations, services, and capital may be made in U.S. dollars through a clearing and reciprocal credit arrange- ment between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under a new agreement (signed on November 18, 1977), between the member central banks of the Central Amer i- can Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing and all import payments may be made freely, subject, except in the case of goods originating in CACM countries or Panama, to sub- mission of evidence of prior registration (see below). However, certain imports from CACM countries require prior authorization, and imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports 120 valued at over US$300 must be registered with the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier, unless the goods originate in CACM countries or Panama. Imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited in principle. In addition to any applicable customs duty, the follow- ing taxes are levied on imports: ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs duty on commodities not covered by the common external tar iff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt; and ( 3) a selective consumption tax w i th a range of 10-100 per cent ad valorem on imports f rom outside the CACM and at lower rates on many CACM imports. There is also a small consular tax on certain imports. Furthermore, most imports originating outside the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty, and a temporary import surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad valorem is levied on many imports f rom countries other than the CACM countries and Panama. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Costa Rica grants duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for all sales of official foreign exchange for current invisibles; for certain travel exchange this approval is given by the Central Bank's representatives in the com- mercial banks, while in all other cases the approval must be sought f rom the Central Bank's Department of Inter- national Transactions. Any physical or juridical person may purchase, sub- ject to prior approval by the Central Bank, exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a remittance for any pur- pose and at any time, but not more often than once every six months, and subject to submission of evidence as to purpose by the applicant. Foreign exchange for private travel may be purchased at agent banks up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for trips of ten days (US$100 a day for shorter t r ips ), upon presentation of passport and travel tickets; agent banks may sell additional amounts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total addi- tional amount of US$2,000 a person a trip, subject to presentation of evidence of the length of the stay abroad. Travel exchange in excess of US$3,000 a person a trip must be approved by the Department of International Transactions. Taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of divi- dends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus 0 20 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution trip; government officials, diplomats, minors, and stu- dents are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- render must take place by sale to the Central Bank or an agent bank. Exporters of nontraditional commodities are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs) corre- sponding to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which are freely negotiable. In addition, exporters of nontradi- tional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 10 per cent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over that in the preceding calendar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- ments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals ( f rom the Ministry of Economy, Indus try, and Commerce); sugar ( f rom the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle ( f rom the National Council of Produc t ion); airplanes ( f r om the Civil Aviation Boa rd ); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f rom the National M u s e um ); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Boa rd ); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin ( f rom the M in is try of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee ( f rom the Coffee O f f ice ); in addi- tion, when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited in principle. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds ( 1) profits obtained dur ing the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; ( 2) the allow- ance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign cur- rency; and (4) the cost of imports made du r ing the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on most exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within 15 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained and used as "free market exchange": diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditure; fam i ly remit- tances and other personal remittances; settlements on COSTA MCA insurance claims, provided that the premium was paid through the free market; and commissions received by agents and representatives of foreign firms. Capital Inward transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Charter of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered w i th the Central Bank in order to ensure access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amortization. Private outflows of foreign capital may be effected through the official market only if so registered. Incoming capital may be sold freely or retained by the recipient if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital re tu rn ing f rom abroad. Agent banks have authority to sell foreign exchange at the official rate for repayments on certain private and public debts and certain amortization on registered foreign capital. Registration is manda tory only for public sector borrowing abroad and for government- guaran teed borrowing abroad. By virtue of the Na t ional P lann ing Law, ministries and autonomous or semi- autonomous organizations other than the commercial banks require the approval of the Office of P lann ing and Economic Policy before they may in i t ia te steps to arrange any borrowing abroad. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as t ime deposits with agent banks in the form of specified fo r e ign cu r renc ie s* or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such f u n ds may be retransferred abroad upon ma tur i ty at the official exchange rate. Outward transfers of national cap i tal are restricted. However, any physical or ju r id ical person may, subject to prior Central Bank approval, purchase foreign ex- change from agent banks, up to US$300 a remittance, for any purpose and at any time, but not more often than once every six months and provided the purpose is indicated. Agent banks have authority to sell exchange for certain investment operations approved by the Minis- try of Economy, Industry, and Commerce as well as the Central Bank. All other outward transfers of national capital require prior authorization by the Central Bank, which withholds authorization in cases where there is no actual obligation abroad, or where, despite the exist- ence of an actual obligation abroad, the Central Bank considers the t ran s fer to be an unau tho r ized t ran s fer of na t ional capital. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accord- ance w i th regulations established by its own Board. Pr iva te physical and ju r id ical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. They may also hold gold in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or pro- fessional users. Changes during 1977 January 24. Meat exports to Canada of up to 1,600 metric tons became eligible for tax credit certificates through a temporary exclusion f rom the list of traditional exports. April 27. Selective consumption taxes were abolished on six import items, including envelopes and postcards, writing paper, note pads, cotton mosquito nets, and a lum inum structural items when such items were imported under free trade treaties. May 2. Exports of raw, refrigerated, or frozen tuna (if offloaded within Costa Rican territory) and of vacuum-packed processed tuna were prohibited. May 26. Cotton in various forms became eligible for tax credit certificates. ^^ ^ July 6. The export of up to 20,000 head of beef cattle on the hoof during the remainder of 1977 was authorized. July 7. Selective consumption taxes were reduced on five import items, including liquid or dehydrated soups and broths, dehydrated vegetables, and fish soups and broths, provided they were imported f rom the Central American area. July 8. Imports of dairy refrigeration equipment and spare parts and accessories were exempted f rom selec- tive consumption taxes and the sales tax. September 19. Raw materials and equipment used in the manu fac tu re of pest control equipment for use in agriculture or s tockfarm ing were exempted from the selective consumption taxes and the sales tax. September 26. An Advisory Board for the Coordina- t ion of Tourism was established to advise the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce on the formulation and coordination of policies related to tourism. September 27. Selective consumption taxes were reduced on 14 import items, including various food products, radio receivers, color and black and white tele- vision sets when their cabinets were manu fac tu red in Costa R ica, some electric home app l iances ( f r y i ng pans, toasters, e tc . ), and toys. October 17. Panel trucks, when imported into or assembled in Costa Rica and used exclusively for cargo transport, and pick-up trucks were exempted from the selective consumption tax. November 17. Selective consumption taxes were abolished on such items as brushes, mechanical ju ice extractors, mixers, pressure cookers, refrigerators, etc., when imported under free trade treaties. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Since July 9, 1973, the rate for the Cyprus pound has been adjusted daily w i th the aim of maintaining its effective relationship w i th the currencies of the main trading partners of Cyprus. The Central Bank of Cyprus quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were US$2.6170 buy ing, and US$2.6140 selling, per <£C 1, and those for sterling were <£ stg. 1.3655 buying, and <£ stg. 1.3605 selling, per «£C 1. The Central Bank also quotes indicative rates for a number of other currencies. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in cover of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank and trade controls by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry. Authority to approve certain applications for the allocation of foreign exchange, w i th in the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank, has been delegated to the authorized dealers. Au thor i ty to intro- duce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of pota- toes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marke t ing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements with clearing countries 1 must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated either in pounds sterling or in U.S. dollars. Paymen ts to countries other than the clearing countries (except Rhodesia) may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency 2 other than Rhodesian currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rhodesia may ma in ta in with authorized banks non- resident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry and Romania. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic was terminated in 1977, but the clearing account may be used for certain payments until the end of 1978. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. Accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Cyprus, w i th transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents and nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel purposes to nonresident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the UN forces in Cyprus (up to the equiva- lent of < £ C 5 0 a t r i p ). Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho- desia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital na ture which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for ( 1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to chari- table institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level deter- mined f rom time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release of blocked funds to each nonresident holder up to <£C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vak ia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, and Viet Nam. For protective reasons, certain goods (such as some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manu- factures, rand industrial machinery) may not be imported free ly; for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Imports from Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Roman ia are licensed in accord- ance with the terms of bilateral trade a n d / or payments agreements. With respect to Albania, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and Viet Nam, no fo rmal t rad ing arrangements exist but certain barter transac t ions take place from time to time. Ind iv idual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to <£C 10 in value, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made freely a f ter receipt of shipping documents. An import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feed s tu f f, pharma- ceuticals, and goods imported by the central and local governments. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved fore ign inves t- ments may be transferred abroad, a f ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance prem iums due to foreign insurance companies are rem i t tab le a f ter deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Family maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documen ta ry evidence of hardship. For certain categories of paymen ts, l im i ts are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preven t ing illicit capital outflow. For s tudy abroad, allowances normally are granted only for s tudy at colleges, un ive r- sities, or comparable ins t i tu t ions. The lower l im it is <£C 1,000 a year, and the upper l im it is <£C 2,400 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of l iv ing in the country concerned —e.g., for s tudy in coun tr ies in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East (de f ined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, e tc . ), <£C 1,000; in the United States and Canada, £C 2,400; in all other countries, <£C 2,000. Higher amoun ts may be gran ted on presentation of documen ta ry evidence. For tou r ist travel, the limit is <£C 250 a person a n n u a l l y ;: >> for bus i- ness travel £C 20 to <£C 60 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Res ident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and fo re ign currency notes up to the equ iva lent of <£C 50, the la t ter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Non- resident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyp rus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley, to control by the Cyprus G r a in Comm iss ion. 3 Increased to £C300 with effect from Janua ry 1, 1978. 124 All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C75, to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank without delay. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; paymen ts of a capital na tu re to any destination require prior approval. Ou tward port- fo l io inves tment is not normally perm i t ted, and only specified types of outward direct inves tment (e.g., for export promo t ion) are approved. Foreign inves tmen ts in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be em- ployed, the extent of the foreign exchange l iab i l i ty which might arise f rom the investment, and possible competi- t ion w i th existing industries. Proceeds f rom the liquida- tion of approved fore ign investments may be repatriated in f u ll at any time, a f t er payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or fore ign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may t rans fer abroad up to <£C 1,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The t ran s fer abroad of funds resu l t ing from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate also is limited to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission f rom the authorities. In princi- ple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Foreign l ife insurance policies not cov- ered by the Insurance Law must be deposited w i th an authorized dealer. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to indus tr ial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1977 January 1. The annual foreign exchange allowance for tou r ist travel was raised from £C 150 to <£C250 a person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS March 24. An import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem was levied on all imports, with the exception of food, feedstuff, Pharmaceuticals, and all goods imported by the central and local governments. June 12. The "Commonwealth preference" for im- ports was abolished and the general rates of customs du ty became applicable to all goods imported from Common- wealth countries, except for the United Kingdom. July 1. The rates of customs duty applicable to the EEC were reduced by 10 per cent. The products affected were mainly items not covered in the previous agree- ment. July 1. All goods imported from the United Kingdom and Ireland became subject to the same rates of du ty as goods imported from the EEC. July 30. The education allowance for the academic year (beginning August 1 and ending July 31) was set at <£C 1,000 for Eastern Mediterranean and Middle East countries (Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, etc.), £C 2,400 for the United States and Canada, and £C 2,000 for all other countries. October 27. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic was terminated and was replaced by a trade agreement providing for settle- ments in convertible currencies. The clearing account would remain open until December 31, 1978, for certain payments. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone. The central rate is DKr8.56656 = SDR1, and Denmark avails itself of wider margins. Denmark maintains a maximum margin of 2.25 per cent for rates in spot exchange transactions in the official exchange market between the Danish krone and the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Norwegian krone. No announced margins are maintained for any other cur- rency. Market rates are quoted daily for 17 currencies.l On December 31, 1977, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DKr 5.7735 and DKr5.7815, respectively, per US$1. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place within two banking days; transactions which mature in three bank- ing days or more are defined as forward transactions. Spot transactions in all currencies, including Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies, may be concluded freely with domestic and foreign banks. Forward transactions which involve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; furthermore, special rules apply for the for- ward sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward dealings against Danish kroner with nonresident customers. For- ward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces, but the National Bank of Denmark (the central bank) has from time to time sold U.S. dollars forward to authorized banks. Forward trans- actions with residents which involve Danish kroner must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Forward transactions with resident customers which do not involve Danish kroner but the purchase of one foreign currency against another, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements with respect to contractual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kr6nur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 126 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some of the stock exchange brokers who are mem- bers of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to individual trans- actions and transfers of DKr 3,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 3,000 may, in any case, be made without delivery of forms. Permission, when required, for for- eign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. For pay- ments to and from Rhodesia, however, special rules are applied in accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts and South Rhodesian Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EEC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresident does not exceed DKr 200,000; any amount in excess of DKr 200,000 must be trans- ferred abroad within two days. Special accounts not sub- ject to a maximum balance may be opened for nonresi- dents provided they are only credited with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. South Rhodesian Accounts are kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EEC system of export/import licenses has now been estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lished for almost all countries exporting low-priced tex- tiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from member countries of the EEC are a few agricultural products and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EEC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. No licenses are granted for the importation of goods origi- nating in or purchased in Rhodesia. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rho- desia is prohibited. With this exception, payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely w i th in five years (seven years for ships and eight years for heavy machinery and ma jor installations pur- chased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more) from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade con- cerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if any discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity with normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of per- formance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, a ircraf t, heavy machinery, and ma jor installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized ex- change dealers the authority to permit payments by resi- dents, including foreign nationals temporarily wo rk ing in Denmark, for most invisibles to be made free ly; in only a few cases is approval from the National Bank required. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the t rans fer is made to the remit- ter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country except Rhodesia, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 3,000. DENMARK Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or edu- cational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 3,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may in addition export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Den- mark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited with the exception of products intended for strictly medical purposes, edu- cational material, publications, and news material. The only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EEC is gold. With respect to other destinations, except for certain items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark w i thout undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used w i th in 30 days to settle or to offset certain commercial and capital payments; other- wise, foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a maxi- mum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export pro- ceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of mem- ber countries of the EEC is based on EEC directives on capital movements, subject to certain transitional arrange- ments, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world (except Rhodesia) as a rule is simi- lar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tur i ty, or to repurchase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad). Residents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and so fo r th, or to a member of the resident's fam i ly. They may buy fo re ign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscrip- tion right to shares or the like owned by the resident con- cerned or that the resident furnishes proof that he has sold foreign securities to a nonresident for a correspond- ing amount within the last 12 months. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, w i th in certain limits, in connection w i th direct investments in most industries (equ i ty capital or loan capital) or with the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 100,000 a year for each for- eign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital, DKr 200,000 for direct investments of loan capital, and DKr 60,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes (DKr 150,000 for health reasons). Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obli- gations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The private acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 normally is approved in accordance w i th Denmark's obligation as a member of the EEC. Authorized dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to non- residents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided nor- mally that the loan is granted directly to the foreign pur- chaser; in those cases where the Na t ional Bank's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permission f rom the National Bank is required for most other t rans fe rs abroad of a capital na ture by residents. Portfolio inves tment abroad is generally not allowed. 2 Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. Remaining liquid assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the em ig rant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment concerns industry, trade in goods, hand ic ra f ts, the hotel business, travel agencies, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 100,000 in each calendar year. Inward direct invest- 2 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1978 residents may subscribe to or pu r- chase listed fore ign bonds issued by specified international organizations of which Denmark is a member. The purchases are to be against cash and sale or redemption will not en t i t le the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other fo re ign securities. 128 men ts w i th loan capital also are exempt from special license w i th in certain l im i ts. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission f rom the exchange control authorities, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly in accord- ance w i th Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license f rom the M in is t ry of Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for indus- trial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license. Bonds denominated only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not repre- sent a direct investment and is not be ing made with a view to subsequent direct inves tment in the company concerned; this l ibera l iza t ion does not apply to certifi- cates of investment companies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of their assets are securities other than stock exchange securities. Nonres iden ts may freely grant loans for up to f ive years (seven years for ships and eight years for heavy mach inery and ma jor installations valued at DKr 1 mil- lion or more) to residents to finance purchases of com- modities and services abroad and to finance the g ran t ing of credits for exports of commodities and services, pro- vided the credit is in con fo rm i ty w i th commercial prac- tice in the trade concerned. They may, fu r the r, grant loans of up to DKr 20 m i l l ion a borrower in a calendar year to enterprises in most indus tr ies, provided that the maturity is at least five years and that the entire proceeds are used only to finance the establishment, expans ion, or equ ipment of the borrower's own business and /or indus- tr ial premises and the acquisition of plant, machinery, and transport equ ipment excluding ships, and provided that the assets are delivered w i th in 6 mon ths prior to the date the loan is repatriated, or contracted to be delivered w i th in 12 months following that date. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a calendar year to members of the nonresident's fam i ly. Mun ic ipa l i t ies and pub l ic u t i l i ty companies may as a ru le issue deben tu re loans abroad w i thout special per- mission of the Na t ional Bank, but their foreign bor- rowing is subject to control by the appropriate depart- ment of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonres iden ts other than new emigrants are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits ob ta ined from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fu ll more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 3,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives as a rule require approval from the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lations, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. The net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers is subject to l im i ta t ions, although the National Bank may give dispensation f rom the general limits on max imum and m in imum require- ments. Otherwise, for any ind iv idual bank, th is position must not be negative. However, for all banks collec- tively, a "frame" has been established of DKr 600 million (until fu r ther notice). This total has been subdivided in to individual "frames" for those banks interested. The la t ter may incur a negative net "commercial" fore ign position, insofar as this results f rom the tak ing up of fore ign cur- rency loans and credits for purposes of on-lending in foreign currency to customers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. Bank advances to customers financed by foreign credit taken up under these "frame" arrange- ments are exempt f rom the bank's credit ceiling; such advances to customers must be used only for purposes permitted by the exchange control regulations. A posi- tive net "commercial" foreign position is, in principle, allowed only as long as it does not exceed DKr 2 million or 15 per cent of the capital and reserves of the individ- ual bank, whichever is higher. The Na t ional Bank may grant exemptions from this rule, but only when necessary for the individual bank to cover a net short position in the forward market. Banks are not normally permitted to borrow abroad for their own account at medium or long term; exceptions are made, however, for loans with a maturity of five years or more hav ing the s ta tus of subordinated capital. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark; they may also import gold coins. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- DENMARK ized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 18 per cent but not to customs du ty. Domestic transactions also are taxed at a rate of 18 pe rcen t. Changes during 1977 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quan t i ta t ive import regulations were made in accord- ance w i th EEC decisions, directives, and regulations. January 26, The Na t ional Bank announced a change in the definition of Denmark's international liquidity. With effect f rom January 1, 1977, fore ign shares held by banks and savings banks would no longer be included. A quo ta of DKr 1 million foreign shares quoted on a stock exchange was established for each ind iv idual for- eign exchange dealer. Foreign bonds continued to be included in the foreign position of the exchange dealers but the obligation to resell such bonds to nonresidents w i th in one year was abolished. February 22. The National Bank amended certain regu la t ions on commercial credits and loans and financial loans related to purchases and rebu i ld ing of ships of more than 100 gross registered tons. A f ter delivery of the ship, the debt in respect of the transac t ion may at most amount to 70 per cent of the selling price and is to be paid off on terms that are not more favorable to the debtor than annual or sem iannual ins ta l lmen ts of equal size spread over not more than seven years f rom the date of delivery. The gran t ing or acceptance of suppliers' credits in connection w i th rebuilding of ships requires permission f rom the Na t ional Bank. Likewise, the tak ing up of special financial loans for the purchase or recon- struction of ships would require permission. April 4. The central rate was changed from DKr 7.89407 = SDR 1 to DKr 8.13822 = SDR 1. There was a corresponding change in the conversion rate against the European monetary un it of account. New interven- tion rates were set for the currencies par t ic ipa t ing in the European common margins arrangement. August 29. The central rate was changed f rom DKr 8.13822 = SDR 1 to DKr 8.56656 = SDR 1. There was a corresponding change in the conversion rate against the European monetary unit of account. New intervention rates were set for the currencies participat- ing in the European common marg ins arrangement. Denmark ceased to observe margins for the Swedish krona. October 3. The general rate of value-added tax was raised from 15 per cent to 18 per cent. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso. The currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Cen- tral Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 per cent. Exchange transactions by commer- cial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of 0.25 per cent buying and 0.5 per cent selling; minor exchange transactions with tourists and other travelers from abroad are free of any banking commissions or other service charges. All payments abroad at the offi- cial exchange rate must be made through banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. Payments for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official exchange rate are made through a tolerated free market, in which the exchange fluctu- ates freely; this market is fed by foreign exchange receipts which are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. The average rate in this market during 1977 was about RD$1.22 = US$1. Different effective exchange rates may also arise from the requirement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for certain imports and the levying of a tax on profits remitted to nonresidents. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is admin- istered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board estab- lishes import quotas, which are administered and con- trolled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Certain releases of foreign exchange require the express authorization of the President of the Republic. Export controls are administered by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX). Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settle- ments with Brazil, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements.1 Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise no obligations 1 These agreements provide swing limits of varying amounts but settle- ments must be made in full at the end of every four months. 130 are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be classified broadly into the following categories: (1) imports for which the banking system sells foreign exchange in unrestricted amounts at the official exchange rate; (2) imports for which the banking system sells foreign exchange only up to annual quotas; and (3) all other imports for which foreign exchange is purchased in the tolerated free market. All payments for imports at the official exchange rate require the approval of the Central Bank. Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities for reasons of health or security. Insurance on imports must be contracted with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Commodities subject to annual quotas may be imported and settled with official exchange only against a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same requirement applies to some other goods that are not subject to quantitative restrictions, including specified canned fish, olives and capers, alcoholic beverages, and certain types of plywood and doors. Some other import items not sub- ject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. After the Central Bank approves an application, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid, letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial banks for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the com- mercial bank. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of foreign exchange to commercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank pays the exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct payment, a bank draft, or a transfer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. At the end of 1977 such arrears had been eliminated. Imports are classified according to the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties are levied on imports according to three general and numerous specific laws. Ad valorem import duties range from 20 per cent to 200 per cent, but the maximum import duty is considerably higher (around 700 per cent) if specific duties are taken into account. An internal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem and a 4 per cent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges also are applied to all imports except those subject to the minimum duty of 20 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transaction. However, foreign ex- change at the official rate is sold only for a limited number of payments for current invisibles. For some of these invisibles, official foreign exchange is sold up to specified limits. Thus, nonresident foreign nationals working in the Dominican Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic develop- ment may remit abroad at the official exchange rate up to 60 per cent of their salaries. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly main- tenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$250 for Spain, up to US$300 for other European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a month, irrespective of country, is available for post- graduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in con- formity with the terms of the contract. The maximum interest rate approved on foreign loans is 12 per cent per annum. Transfers of profits and dividends are per- mitted only for foreign investments that have been regis- tered in the Central Bank and may not exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, including reinvested profits. The Monetary Board is empowered, however, to authorize remittances in excess of 18 per cent when investments are deemed beneficial to the Dominican economy. Divi- dends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent and a surtax of 3 per cent of the amount of the tax. Payments for invisibles for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official rate, or in excess of the limits specified, are made through the free exchange market. Such transactions include, in particular, expenses for tourism and business travel abroad, insurance premiums, and remittances for family living expenses. All commissions due to domestic agents or representa- tives of foreign firms arising from imports must be paid in Dominican pesos. Airline tickets also must be paid in local currency and are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200, or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days from receipt of the application. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 29 products or subproducts, mainly food- stuffs, are prohibited, and 36 others, mainly intermediate goods, require export licenses. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special committee. Within two working days of receiv- ing payment, exporters of Dominican products must sur- render to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt from the exchange surrender require- men ts are foreign mining companies and firms operat- ing in industrial free zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of shipment without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commer- cial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capi- tal remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and converted into pesos at that Bank. Registered for- eign direct investments are eligible for remittances of profits and dividends. Registration is permitted for investments in agriculture, livestock, mining, manufac- turing, tourism, transportation and communications, and finance companies. The Monetary Board may, however, permit the registration of other investments when deemed beneficial to the economic development of the country. Registration may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of outward capi- tal remittances must be submitted through the commer- cial banks to the Central Bank. Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are author- ized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual installments. Applications by residents to transfer capital aboard to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government with the prior authorization of the Con- gress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guarantee the provision of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Effective January 1, 1977, foreign contracts by the pri- vate bank and nonbank sectors are approved by the Central Bank for use according to the following scale of priorities: export promotion, import substitution, expan- sion of local production, and import financing. For the second and third categories, foreign loans are not author- ized if the repayment schedule is less than four years. For import financing, the repayment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except in the case of capital goods. No foreign loans are approved with an annual financing charge in excess of 12 per cent. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au thor i- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1977 January 1. New guidelines for foreign borrowing by the private bank and nonbank sector became effective. Foreign loans were to be approved by the Central Bank according to the following scale of priorities: export promotion, import substitution, expansion of local pro- duction, and import financing. For the second and third categories, foreign loans were not to be authorized if the repayment schedule was less than four years. For import financing, the repayment term of the loan had to be less than 180 days, except in the case of capital goods. Finally, no foreign loans were to be approved with an annual financing charge in excess of 12 per cent. January 5. Portland cement was added to the list of imports for which the sale of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate was prohibited. January 27. Twenty commodities or groups of com- modities were added to the list of imports for which the sale of foreign exchange at the official rate was pro- hibited. Two commodities were added to the list of imports for which foreign exchange at the official exchange rate was sold only up to specified annual quotas. April 20. The m i n im um import duty was raised to 20 per cent ad valorem. July 14. The Monetary Board resolved that commis- sions due to agents in the Dominican Republic of foreign firms had to be specifically deducted from drafts in respect of import payments, and that such commissions had to be paid in local currency. If suppliers abroad did not have agents in the Dominican Republic, certification to that effect was to be submitted by the suppliers, together with the shipping documents accompanying the d ra f ts. When opening letters of credit, banks had to ensure that the beneficiaries had authorized the foreign bank cashing the letter of credit to deduct the amount of commission to be collected by the agent in the Domini- can R epub l ic and had given instructions that this amount be paid to the agent in local currency. July 14. Tourists and other travelers f rom abroad could reconvert into foreign exchange up to 60 per cent of the local currency or ig ina l ly purchased from com- mercial banks at the official exchange rate, without i n c u r r i ng b a n k i ng comm iss ions or o ther service charges. December 12. A Monetary Board resolution adopted the fo l low ing measures a f fec t ing impor ts: ( 1) Payment for imports of agr icu l tural equ ipment for which foreign exchange was previously sold only up to a specified annu al quota could hencefor th be made at the official exchange rate w i thout l im i ta t ion; settlement for such equ ipment had to be made by a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit. (2) The provision of fore ign exchange at the official exchange rate for imports of autobuses was limited to US$500 per seat. (3) Eight commodities or groups of commodities, inc lud ing bricks, tiles for con- struction, plywood, and glass bottles for beverages, were added to the list of imports for which the sale of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate was prohibited. (4) The annu al exchange quota for impor ts of construc- t ion equ ipment was set for 1978 at 50 per cent of the va lue provided in 1977. (5) The existing system of import quotas and prohibitions was extended to December 31, 1978. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ecuador is the Sucre. On Febru- ary 26, 1973 a central rate of S/ 25.00 = US$1 was established, corresponding at the time to 0.0294665 gram of fine gold per sucre. There are two exchange markets. In the official mar- ket the Central Bank of Ecuador maintains rates of S/ 24.80 buying, and S/ 24.95 selling, per U.S. dollar, which apply to about two thirds of foreign exchange transactions consisting of export proceeds, import pay- ments, certain transactions in invisibles and capital trans- actions, and most transactions by the Government or public entities; however, the exchange transactions of the private petroleum companies must be conducted with the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent, buying and selling. In the official market rates are quoted for 24 currencies.1 Proceeds from loans granted by international agencies or foreign governments to the Government and to public institutions also are converted at the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, but are exempt from the 1 per cent exchange tax. All other transactions take place in a free market where the rate fluctuates but in which the Cen- tral Bank intervenes; on December 31, 1977 the free market buying and selling rates were S/ 25.77 and S /26 .22, respectively, per US$1.2 A few transactions eligible for the free market may alternatively be effected at the Central Bank, at its official market buying and selling rates. Loans taken up abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging frc^» 0.5 per cent for maturities of 18 to 24 months to 2 per cent for maturities of 6 months or less. Exempt f rom this tax are (1) loans with a maturity in excess of 24 months; ( 2) credits f rom foreign govern- ments and in terna t ional financial organizations; (3) credits granted to public and semipublic agencies; (4) investment credits for the agricultural and fishing sec- tors with a ma tu r i ty exceeding two years; ( 5) credits with a maturity exceeding two years for the importation of machinery and capital goods; and (6) suppliers' credits which do not involve an inflow of foreign exchange. Ecuador forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect f rom August 31, 1970. 1 These currencies are Argentine pesos, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Colombian pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Paraguayan guaranies, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, U ruguayan new pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. 2 Some free ma rket transactions take place at the Central Bank, at daily rates set by the Bank; these are normally close to the free market rates in the commercial banks. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to shift transac- tions between the two exchange markets and has exten- sive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports which enter as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require prior authorization by the Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Integration and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, by the Ministry of Finance. However, all applications for import licenses by industrial firms must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Council. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania must take place through bilateral accounts. There is a reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing sys- tem. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipu- lated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (Group A) and semiessential goods (Group B ), and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the following exceptions: books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music may be imported freely without a license against payment through the free market; if the importer applies for a license, exchange will be made available at the official rate. Medicines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 c.i.f. or less (US$500 f.o.b. or less for goods shipped by a i r ). A few goods may be imported only from LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayments of 80 per cent of import duties have been made, that an advance deposit has been made, and that a certificate is 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the shipping documents. The Central Bank may authorize advance import payments with official exchange up to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value, provided the importer has paid the corresponding amount in local currency and has deposited, as a guarantee, an additional 15 per cent of the value in sucres. The guaran tee deposit is returned at the time of customs clearance. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. The Monetary Board is authorized to sh ift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or lift import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. Many imports are subject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit, which must be maintained for 180 days, is 50 per cent for automobiles and certain other vehicles and barley, 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II, and 10 per cent for goods on List I-B. There are various exemptions.3 Most imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent gifts or foreign loans. Many goods in List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These invisibles are in principle limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign invest- ments registered at the Central Bank, payments by the Government and public entities, necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad, medical expenses, and advertising costs. Private sector interest payments may not exceed 10 per cent; there is no ceiling for interest payments by the public sector. With respect to loans to petroleum companies only, interest, commis- sion, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. There are also 3 The deposit is waived for goods on List I when imported on a barter basis against exports of bananas. 134 limits on student allowances, travel expenditures, and "other" invisibles eligible for the official rate, but amoun ts in excess of these limits may be purchased in the free market. Most other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and for- eign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for departure from Ecuador and 4 per cent for the return trip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure the full sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. M in imum reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas and textiles to help ensure the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petroleum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain commodities are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. An export tax of 15 per cent ad valorem is levied on cocoa beans; exports of coffee beans are subject to a sliding-scale tax which ranges f rom 26.5 per cent to 35 per cent. Sugar is exempted f rom the ad valorem export tax and receives a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. There are other export taxes in addition to those mentioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, including those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industries, Com- merce, and Integration and /or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investments for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortiza- tion. For foreign capital entering in the form of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution machinery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Additionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification from the appropriate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank must submit a recommenda- tion to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registra- tion in the official market and all pertinent documenta- tion. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registra- tion for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all foreign loans, however, registration for statistical purposes is mandatory. In the case of suppliers' credits, no special registration procedure is required; all the pertinent information on terms of payments, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for purchase of exchange for remittance of interest, charges, and scheduled amortiza- tion. Foreign nationals are prohibited from owning rural properties and f rom owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in domestic wholesaling and retailing, in construction, and in real estate development is restricted. The Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Integration does not authorize direct foreign investment for estab- lishing publicity firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, newspapers, and magazines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the official rate for the withdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumu- lated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments for which the registration procedure for for- eign exchange purposes has been completed. For invest- ments registered on a provisional basis, profits may not be repatriated through the official market. Profit remit- tances may not exceed the limit (20 per cent a year) specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to maintain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. ECUADOR Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work, the gold content of which does not represent more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of non- monetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Imports of gold for the production of jewelry are treated as List II imports. Gold bars are exempt from import duty, while that on semiworked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1977 January 2. A reciprocal credit agreement with Argen- tina came into effect. January 12. A global quota for imports of automo- biles in 1977 was established by the Ministry of Com- merce; each local automotive trading company was assigned an annual quota. January 14. Sugar export quotas were established. January 19. The import of certain fertilizers, previ- ously prohibited, was permitted under List I-A, subject to authorization by the Ministry of Agriculture. February 7. Machinery and equipment used by the fishing industry was exempted from prior import deposit requirements, subject to authorization from the Ministry of Natural Resources. February 9. Tax credit certificates were introduced for sugar exports. February 16. The Central Bank was again empowered to authorize advance import payments with official ex- change up to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value. (Prepay- ments with official exchange had not been permitted since August 1975.) The importer would be required to pay 100 per cent of the local currency equivalent of the foreign currency amount and to deposit, as a guarantee, an additional 15 per cent in sucres, returnable at the time of customs clearance. For imports of ships, aircraft, and spare parts, and of machinery and industrial plants, the guarantee deposit might be replaced by a bank guarantee. If the import were not to materialize (without justifica- t ion), the Central Bank would lay claim to the guarantee, 30 days after expiration of the import license, and would require the importer to return the foreign exchange that had been granted (Regulation No. 952). April 28. The advance import deposit requirement was lifted for all imports under barter trade agreements. April 28. Prior import deposit requirements for goods on List I-B were lowered from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. May 4. The sliding-scale tax on exports of coffee beans, ranging from 2.5 per cent to 15 per cent, was replaced by a unitary tax of 35 per cent. May 19. Foreign travel allowances, eligible for the official rate and previously limited to US$3,500 a person 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR a trip subject to appropriate documentation, were re- duced to US$3,000 a person a trip but with provision for an allowance of up to US$10,000 a person a trip with appropriate documentation. The limit on payments for "other" invisibles was raised from US$2,000 for each request to US$100,000 for each request. Any amounts above these limits could still be purchased in the free market. June 8. The Central Bank was empowered to expand its intervention in the free market by selling foreign currencies forward. June 24. Imports of Pharmaceuticals became exempt from import duties and prior import deposit require- ments. July 15. Pre-export financing quotas under Regula- tion No. 904 of August 19, 1976 were suspended for 120 days. However, in cases where the recipients were already in excess of those quotas, the suspension was only for 90 days (Regulation No. 972). July 27. The import surcharge of 30 per cent was eliminated for the following: goods imported by uni- versities, goods imported for donating to institutions, taxis, machinery and equipment employed in collecting and storing basic food commodities, and imports for use in oil exploration. August 8. The unitary tax on exports of coffee beans, introduced on May 4, was replaced by a sliding-scale tax ranging from 26.5 per cent to 35 per cent. September 12. The ad valorem tax credit on exports of manufactured cacao products was reduced from 15 per cent to 5 per cent. December 16. The advance import deposit on barley was raised to 50 per cent. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyp- tian Pound was established with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Some exchange transactions take place at rates based on the off ic ial rate of LE 1 = US$2.55555. The Central Bank of Egypt's off ic ial buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were LE 0.391305 and LE 0.395218, respectively, per US$1. A large proportion of exchange transactions take place in the parallel market or at the parallel market rates. The rates of exchange in this market are deter- mined in the light of prevailing foreign exchange con- siderations. On December 31, 1977 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in this market were LE 0.700 and LE 0.714, respectively, per US$1.1 In addition, certain transactions take place at freely nego- tiated exchange rates. Official rates and parallel market rates for 15 other convertible currencies 2 are based on cross rates quoted in New York. Forward cover is available for fore ign trade transactions either in the official exchange ma rket or in the parallel marke t. The forward cover charge is fixed at 3 per cent in the official exchange ma rke t, wh i le authorized banks are empowered to fix the charge in the parallel market. Banks do not require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; nor is such approval required for transactions effected through the parallel exchange market or for balances held in speci- fied foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the M in is try of Economy and Economic Cooperation, and is implemented under the supervision of the Undersecretary for Foreign Exchange Affairs. A foreign exchange budget is established a n n u- ally. Banks are authorized to execute fore ign exchange transactions, w i th in the f ramewo rk of a general au thor i- zation, w i thout the need to obtain specific exchange con- trol approval. The M in is try of Trade supervises impor ts and exports, but controlled impor ts are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain impor ts and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. 1W i th effect f rom Janua ry 3, 1978, the spread between buy ing and selling rates was reduced f rom 2 per cent to 1 per cent and the selling rate was thus reduced to LE 0.707 per US$1. 2 The convertible currencies are listed as A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, B e lg i an francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, French f r a n c s, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuw a i ti d ina rs, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, No r- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds or a convertible currency to the debit or creclit of the appropriate Free Account, or in any other manner pre- scribed or permitted by the Foreign Exchange Regula- tions Manua l. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the proceeds f rom exports of raw cotton to con- vertible currency countries must be received in deutsche ma rk, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars (in addition, for exports to Austria, Belgium, France, Japan, and the Un i ted K ingdom, in the currencies of those countries). Settlements with countries with which Egypt has b i la teral payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.3 However, payment to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized proper ty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyp t ian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by deb i t ing Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Pay- ment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign Currency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds/Official Marke t. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in for- eign currency and balances are retransferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts 4 In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemn i ty agree- men ts concluded with certain countries, there are four main types of accounts which may be opened by non- residents: Free Accounts, Special Accounts, D Accounts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in a foreign currency or Egyptian pounds (related to either the official market or the parallel m a r k e t ); the latter are freely convertible at the relevant exchange rate. Free Accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currency or with the proceeds 3 On December 31, 1977, Egypt had bilateral payments agreements with People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Greece, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Sudan, and U.S.S.R. In a d d i t i o n, for the f inanc ing of t rade in ce r ta in specified commodities, c red it fac i l i t ies had been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central banks of Ghana, Jo rdan, Mali, and Somalia. There were also inope ra t ive a r rangemen ts w i th the Yemen A rab R e p u b l ic and the People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. 4 The exchange control regulations issued on November 27, 1976 e l im in a t ed m any of the previous differences in t rea tment of resident and nonres ident persons. D Accounts and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts a re by t h e ir n a t u re l im i t ed to non res iden ts, w h i le accoun ts for the re ten t ion of fore ign cu r rency receipts f rom expor ts and nonfac tor services are hi effect limited to residents. Other accounts are free of residency distinctions. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT from the sale of such currency; with transfers from other Free Accounts; with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign banknotes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in con- vertible currency. They may be debited for payments abroad in a convertible currency; for transfers to other Free Accounts and to Special Accounts; for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment; for any payments in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. Special Accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of acceptable foreign banknotes; with transfers from Free Accounts or other Special Accounts; and with interest on the accounts. They may be debited for payments for imports; for either transfers abroad or purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of pay- ment to cover the expenses abroad of the account holder or his fam i ly (within a limit of LE2,000 a y e a r ); for other authorized payments abroad; for local foreign cur- rency payments; and for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of payment for use in Egypt. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resi- dent of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral pay- ments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respec- tive payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized to the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. There are also Nonconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a capital nature to a foreign national living abroad which is not remit- table under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due f rom the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities and for payments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients of the proceeds from certain exports and nonfactor services, and may be credited with the proceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for payments in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activi- ties (subject to payment of the differential between the 138 parallel market buying and selling rates, for parallel market accounts), or for surrender of the foreign cur- rency at the appropriate exchange rate. With certain exceptions, any balances in such accounts on June 30 or December 31 of any calendar year must be used within three months or surrendered. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are nonconvertible; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally, although most types of commodities may be imported provided the necessary foreign exchange is acquired outside the parallel or official mar- kets. Imports under bilateral payments agreements and of certain basic goods are financed at the official rate. Other imports are financed at the parallel market rate or take place under the "own exchange" arrangements. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- men ts ), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sector importers of "own exchange" or "open license" imports must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are respon- sible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, trans- portation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods .to be imported within that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import transactions. Private sector imports through the parallel market require approval by the Commercial Agency for the Parallel Market. All goods may be imported without an import permit; imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Banks are authorized to provide parallel market exchange for the importation of certain commodities without restriction. Such "open license" imports do not require any prior approval and do not count against foreign exchange budget quotas. All commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of for- eign exchange in the official or parallel markets is involved. A special Determination Committee must first approve the transaction. Certain imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the parallel market rate. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tourism) in Free or Special Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign exchange through the med ium of Free or Spe- cial Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them fore ign bank- notes acquired through other channels that have not pre- viously been declared up to LE 200 a t r ip or LE 2,000 a year. Most payments for current invisibles due in convert- ible currency must be settled in the parallel marke t. The following payments for invisibles take place at the off i- cial rate: expenditures by Egyptian diplomatic missions abroad; official support for students abroad; freight and insurance on official rate imports; expenses related to official rate exports; and payments of principal, interest, and charges on official rate external debt. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian pound banknotes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange which they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leav ing Egypt may reconvert their rema in ing Egyptian pounds af ter deduction of LE 20 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, which may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of m any products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. The proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of raw cotton, rice, petroleum and petroleum products,5 and re-exported foreign goods imported at the official rate, must be surrendered at the official rate. Other export proceeds are eligible for the parallel market rate. Export proceeds other than those f rom books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Export proceeds eligible for the parallel ma rket 5 The petroleum sector may retain foreign exchange earnings to the extent necessary to meet budgeted foreign exchange requirements. EGYPT and proceeds from exports of petroleum may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds f rom exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified coun- tries may be settled through indemnity accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles The parallel market rate applies to all proceeds f rom invisibles except for those through bilateral payments agreement accounts and Suez Canal and SUMED pipeline dues. Earn ings abroad by persons other than the Govern- ment, public authorities, and other public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Receipts from the provision of local hotel, transpor t, or travel agent services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Many public sector and other entities are permitted to re ta in all or part of their receipts from invisibles in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, and in many instances are exempt f rom the periodic surrender requirements of these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemn i ty agreements w i th certain countries. Persons arr iv ing in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian pound banknotes and are per- mitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if it is desired to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Account. Foreign travelers must convert in to Egyptian currency the equivalent of LE 100 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited fore ign earn- ings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers are severely restricted, although residents are effectively able to transfer unlimited amounts abroad through transactions in the free market (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Egyptian emigrants are author- ized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 500 a person or LE 2,000 a fam i ly, to take out jewelry and other valu- ables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly, and to export other personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securi- ties. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad and to undertake the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. Trans- fers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance with court orders. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income—may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign nationality who leave the country finally after a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Noncon- vertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regu- lations must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Investment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones, defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are consid- ered on an individual basis, and approved transfers take place at the parallel market rate. The official rate applies to nonproject loans and deposits received or repaid by the Government or the Central Bank, and to repayments of other government debt incurred prior to 1977. Acquisition of Egyptian real estate by foreigners, when permitted, must take place at the official rate. The parallel market rate applies to other capital transactions. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad, for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts, gold (including gold coins) and other precious metals. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the monetary authorities, including author- ized industrial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted provided that the sales proceeds are repatri- ated in convertible currency. Travelers are permitted to carry out and bring in gold jewelry within specified limits. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. Changes during 1977 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1976 of the bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, India, and Sri Lanka, and of the commodity exchange agreement with Bangladesh, settlements w i th those countries (aside from the settlement of certain outstanding balances) were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 2. The bilateral payments agreement with Sudan was substantially modified. January 17. Customs duties on many consumer durables were raised. February 4. The bilateral payments agreement with Jordan was substantially modified. February 28. Ministerial Decree No. 65 of 1977 shifted many convertible currency transactions f rom the official rate to the parallel rate. Items shifted included 140 exports of potatoes, fresh onions and garlic, cotton yarn and textiles, and cement, leaving only raw cotton, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products at the official rate. A wide range of imports was also shifted, leaving only wheat, wheat flour, edible oils, sugar, tea, fertilizers, insecticides, and the noncapital imports of the petroleum sector at the official rate. Receipts of invisibles from shipping and local expenditures by foreign governments and organizations were shifted, leaving only Suez Canal and SUMED pipeline dues at the official rate. Most pay- ments for invisibles by the Government and payments for pensions and reinsurance were shifted, leaving at the official rate only expenditures of diplomatic missions, official subsidies for study abroad, freight and insurance on official rate imports, expenditures related to official rate exports, and payments related to official rate capital transactions. Those current transactions in convertible currency that were shifted amounted to about 20 per cent of the total provided for in the 1977 foreign exchange budget, leaving about 35 per cent of such transactions at the official rate. March 24. Ministerial Decree No. 417 of 1977 authorized commercial banks to provide parallel market exchange for certain imports without restriction or requirement for prior approval. The items appearing on the initial "open list" included most of the produc- tion requirements of the leather and fu rn i tu re indus- tries, automotive spare parts, medical equipment, and a variety of minor items such as electric lamps. March 29. The bilateral payments agreement with Viet Nam was terminated. March 31. Consolidated regulations for the Free Zone of the City of Port Said were promulgated in Law No. 12 of 1977. April 26. The bilateral payments arrangement with Bangladesh at the commercial bank level was terminated. June 5. Law No. 32 of 1977 amended Law No. 43 of 1974 Concerning the Investment of Arab and For- eign Funds and the Free Zones in various respects. The exchange rate provisions of the original law were amended to provide for repatriation of profits and capi- tal at the "highest rate prevailing and declared for for- eign currency," which at the present time is the parallel rate. August 7. Ministerial Decree No. 232 of 1977 regu- lated the registration and negotiation of foreign currency securities. August 24. Authorized banks were informed that travelers could export foreign banknotes that had not previously been declared up to limits of LE 200 a trip and LE 2,000 a year. October 19. An External Debt Department was established in the Central Bank. Its functions were to conduct research on international financial markets, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution develop external debt policy, evaluate foreign loans and participate in their negotiation, analyze external debt information, prepare statistical reports needed by the authorities and international organizations, and main- tain records of all public external obligations. November 15. Nonresident foreigners were freed from the previous requirement that when purchasing airline tickets they submit evidence that they had acquired the necessary Egyptian currency at the official rate. December 26. It was announced that the spread between buying and selling rates in the parallel market was reduced from 2 per cent to 1 per cent. This became effective with the publication of new rates on January 3, 1978 when the selling rate was reduced from LE0.714 per US$1 to LE 0.707 per US$1. EGYPT 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.294665 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is <Z 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are (2 2.49 buying, and <Z 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of 0.1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as draf ts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below (2100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of 0.1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments, including most import payments, is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports must be obtained from the Exchange Control Department. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or of Agriculture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Central American Clear- ing House. Payments to Mexico are in principle also settled through the Clearing House, but th is a r rangement has been suspended since September 1, 1976. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign insti- tutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with banks authorized by the Exchange Control Department, pro- vided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks also may freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of physical persons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran na t iona l i ty) who reside abroad, and, for a maximum period of six months, 142 in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including air- planes, firearms, ammun i t ion, military equipment, dyna- mite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports from all countries must be registered w i th the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports from counties outside Central America must be approved by the Exchange Control Department. For certain goods that are considered luxury com- modities representing about 4 per cent of the total value of imports, the Exchange Control Department cannot authorize importation, unless an advance deposit require- ment, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is met in local currency. In addition, c.i.f. va lue of the goods being imported must be paid at the time of import regis- tra t ion. These goods include airplanes, boats, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, fu rn i tu re, domestic appliances, rugs, photographic equipment, and furs. Imports from countries outside the Central American Common Market that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Salvador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years (medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers that the Central Reserve Bank considers as small enterprises). For noncommercial imports, the commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for all import payments up to US$200 for each order. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 per cent, calculated on the value of the advance payment, is required from the importer as a guarantee, but those goods subject to the 100 per cent prior import deposit, goods valued at US$500 or less, and imports by indus- trial and agricultural firms may be exempted. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the coun- try, provided that payment in fu ll has been made to the exporter. Imports from other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are exempt from the exchange control regulations described above. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement of June 2, 1970 are also exempt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, El Salvador grants duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are free of duty by virtue of the Industrial Incentive Law. Many nonessential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange, without prior authorization from the Central Reserve Bank, for subscriptions to foreign literature, correspondence courses, and memberships in profes- sional clubs and societies. They are also authorized to sell foreign exchange for travel for tourism or business, as indicated below. The basic exchange allocation which banks may make available for travel outside the Central American area (interpreted to mean the Central American Common Marke t) is US$2,000 a person a trip for both adu l ts and children. Additional amounts may be authorized by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t, provided that a gua ran tee deposit in local currency corresponding to 10 per cent of the excess over the basic allocation is lodged w i th the Central Reserve Bank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's return. In addition to the basic exchange allo- cation, foreign exchange is made available to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000 if the patient buys the exchange in El Salvador and up to US$6,000 if the funds are directly remitted abroad. The US$6,000 limit may also be exceeded with the approval of the Central Reserve Bank, provided that proof of additional medical expenses is submitted. Local banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to US$600 a person a month for f am i ly remittances to Salvadoran nationals abroad and for study abroad. Local banks are also authorized to sell exchange for study purposes in addition to the above quota, upon pres- entation of evidence of installation expenses, tuition costs, and other expenses. For Salvadoran nationals traveling to Central American countries, the commercial banks have been delegated authority to provide exchange up to the amounts mentioned above in Costa Rican colones, Honduran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, or Guatemalan quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones ( for payment through the Central American Clearing House). Requests for larger amoun ts must be submitted for approval to the Central Reserve Bank. International sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. EL SALVADOR Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid in fore ign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance com- panies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain f rom the Exchange Control Department authori- zation to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized com- mercial bank. Travelers may take out <Z 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Nonresident travelers may upon departure reconvert 0 200 into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for some food- s tu f fs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of all exports in excess of US$6,000 must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an author- ized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in (2 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modi- fication, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments by private individuals in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital w i th a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Regis- tration ensures ( 1) free remittance of net profits on for- eign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and enterprises in the field of tour ism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repa- 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR triation of the proceeds f rom the total or partial liquida- tion of the enterprise (a f ter payment of taxes) in pro- portion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or par- ticipations, including capital gains; and (5) with respect to loans, interest, and amo r t iza t ion as de te rm ined at the time of registration. In the cases under ( 3) and ( 4 ), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the M in is try of Econ- omy is required. Foreign investments made in El Salva- dor prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Depart- ment. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, with- out restriction, the remittance abroad of fo re ign currency for the payment of interest and amor t iza t ion on short- term loans from abroad; fore ign loans w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a m a tu r i ty of more than one year must be authorized by the M in i s t ry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain m in i- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which fore ign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Cen tral American Common Market. Gold Gold coins in denom ina t ions of <Z 25, (Z 50, C 100, and <Z 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. In practice, imports of nonmone ta ry unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives ac t ing on beha lf of their mem- bers and other users. Changes during 1977 November 15. The Monetary Board substantially liberalized restrictions on current payments. ( 1) There was a reduction in the coverage of the 100 per cent advance import deposit requ iremen t, so that it affected less than 4 per cent of the total value of imports com- pared w i th 7 per cent previously. ( 2) The limit on fo r- eign exchange for travel abroad was raised to US$2,000 a person a t r ip for both adults and ch i ldren, w i th provi- sion for add i t ional amoun ts of fore ign exchange to be made available upon approval by the Central Reserve Bank. (3) The guarantee deposit requ irement for any such additional amounts was reduced f rom the previous level of 20-30 per cent to 10 per cent. (4) Allocations of foreign exchange to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad were increased to US$3,000 if the exchange were sold to the patient and up to US$6,000 if payment were made directly abroad. (5) The limits on fam i ly support remittances and for study abroad were raised f rom US$400 and US$300 a person a mon th, respectively, to US$600 a person a month. It was also announced that rem i t tances for tu i t ion fees, text books, and insu rance could be made w i thout l im i t. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Ekuele, which is issued by the People's Bank of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. No par va lue or central rate has been established for the ekuele. The currency replaced the Equatorial Gu inean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equa to r ial Guinea's in terven t ion currency until July 12, 1977 when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Following the Spanish exchange rate action Equatorial Gu inea suspended ex- change operations with the exception of some small transactions which take place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekuele and a currency basket. There are no fo rwa rd exchange facilities. There are no bank charges on commissions, but exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 per cent are levied on cer ta in transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is exercised by the Peo- ple's Bank. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the People's Bank or through an authorized bank, the National Deposit and Development Bank (NDDB ). Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the M in is- try of Commerce; import licenses also require the approval of the Presidency. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain must be made through pay- ments agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, and payments to the People's Republic of China through an account denominated in Swiss francs. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program. They do not entitle import- ers to the necessary foreign exchange until approved by the Presidency, af ter which, in principle, exchange is au toma t ica l ly made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; in practice, certain delays have arisen. A state trading organization, Empresa Estatal de Comercio Interior y Exterior ( !NFOGE ), has a monopoly over the importation of Pharmaceuticals, flour, rice, sugar, salt, olive oil, ju te bags, cement, and all government requirements. With the exception of imports of capital goods, all other imports ( inc lud ing foods tuffs and articles of primary need under a com- modity loan f rom the People's Republic of Ch ina) are made by state enterprises only. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the People's Bank, which for specified pur- poses and up to specified amounts has delegated its approval au thor i ty to the NDDB. At present, the ap- proval of most payments and transfers for current inter- na t ional transactions by the private sector is suspended. Residents * are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of EK 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad. The standard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of EK 2,000 a per- son a day, subject to a max imum of EK 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is in principle gran ted to cover tuition and living expenses; nonresident students are allowed the equivalent of EK 5,000 a month for living expenses. For travel abroad for health reasons, fo re ign exchange is made available on ly for expenses covered by original bills. In principle, the transfer of wages and salaries by alien residents, and of professional earnings as well as dividends by all residents, is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to Spain and up to 40 per cent for other countries, pro- vided that annual earnings do not exceed EK 50,000. Larger transfers are permitted when annual earnings exceed EK 50,000. Transfers abroad of professional earnings by nonresidents are, in principle, freely per- mitted, but any amounts in excess of 60 per cent of tax- able earnings are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. There are special arrangements for the transfer of earnings of Nigerian workers employed in Equatorial Guinea. In addition, nonresidents as well as Equatorial Guinean nationals residing temporarily abroad are permitted, in principle, to withdraw up to EK 5,000 a month f rom their savings accounts for remittance abroad. The transfer of net investment income, whether by residents or nonresidents, is subject to an annual limit of 50 per cent. In principle, enterprises classified as "of national interest" may transfer abroad freely up to 25 per cent per annum of the net investment income gen- erated by their exporting activities af ter at least two years of operations. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 per cent. The transfer abroad of net investment income by enterprises classified as "of prefer- ential interest" may be effected two years after the start of operations, but is subject to a 20 per cent tax. Any other enterprise with foreign capital participation may transfer net investment income but such transfers are subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 per cent of such net invest- 1 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA ment income being reinvested in approved projects in Equatorial Guinea, the incidence of tax is reduced to half its normal level. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in principle, per- mitted freely, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EK 3,000 a person in domes- tic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. Licenses are nor- mally valid for one year. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the NDDB. The Chamber of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry, a private, nonprofit, cooperative association, has jurisdic- tion over the marketing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the People's Bank or to the NDDB. Travel- ers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Under the Foreign Investment Law of January 2, 1975 three categories of foreign investment are recog- nized: (1) investments "of national interest" (ma in ly in industrial or forestal enterprises engaged in the export t rade ); (2) investments "of preferential interest" (mainly in enterprises engaged in import substitution); and (3) investments in agricultural and commercial enterprises and in services. Investments by nationals of or entities domiciled in Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Unless specific authorization is given by the Presidency, the foreign share in an Equatorial Guinean enterprise may not exceed 50 per cent of the capital. The balance will belong to the state in the case of categories (1) and ( 2) above and to national or juridical Guinean entities in the case of other investments. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval, and the latter are not normally permitted. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the People's Bank or to the NDDB. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is in principle per- mitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount real- ized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval. Residents, as well as nonresidents living in Equatorial Guinea, are prohibited f rom engaging with nonresidents in borrowing or lending. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the People's Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins in denomina- tions of Equatorial Guinean pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000 are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1977 July 12. Following the exchange rate action by Spain, Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations, w i th the exception of small transactions taking place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekuele and a currency basket. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Birr, corresponding to Br 2.50000 = SDR 1, and Ethiopia avails itself of wider margins. In practice, however, Ethiopia ma in ta ins a fixed rate vis-a-vis its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. The National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) does not deal with the public; its dealings in U.S. dollars with the author- ized banks take place at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Authorized banks in dealing with the public must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 per cent buying and 1.50 per cent selling; in addition, they are authorized to levy service charges for their own account of 0.25 per cent buying and 0.75 per cent selling. These commissions on U.S. dollar transactions are rounded slightly to obtain rates of Br 2.06 = US$1 buy ing and Br%2.10 = US$1 selling, to which the service charges (calculated on Br2.07 = US$1) are added; the resulting effective buying and selling rates are Br 2.054825 and Br 2.115525 per US$1. These rates are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. Spot exchange rates for other currencies are based on the National Bank's official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in European exchange markets. Authorized banks require the approval of the National Bank to unde r take forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Con- troller, whose office is a division of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Commerce and Tourism has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars.1 The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. 1 There is an operational U.S. dollar-denominated trade protocol with the German Democratic Republic and an inoperative payments agree- ment with Egypt. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances on nonresident accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval, but the opening of transferable birr accounts and foreign currency accounts at the same time is not permitted. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With minor exceptions, imports of passenger automobiles with an engine capacity of over 1,300 cubic centimeters are prohibited. No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; in order to obtain such licenses, importers are required to produce a valid for- eign trading license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provision of satisfactory in fo rma t ion on costs and payment terms, and the sub- mission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Exchange licenses are then generally granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Pay- ments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis are all normally acceptable. However, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and all imports of nonessential goods require prior consultation with the National Bank. Importation on suppliers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and intermediate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment, in which case prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 per cent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum ranging between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net earnings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 40,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA remit monthly 30 per cent of their net earnings may remit up to 30 per cent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Students may be allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 upon departure for study abroad and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pursuing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad may be allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to sub- mission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange for medical treatment and travel abroad. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation and to the presentation of the necessary docu- ments, foreign companies may in principle remit divi- dends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are in principle allowed for- eign exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maxi- mum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year, which may be accumulated for two years, for persons 18 years of age or over for tourism. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Br 50 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Licenses to export livestock are limited to five firms. Exports of oilseeds other than sesame and groundnuts are limited to two public enterprises. A temporary suspension of exports of horsebeans came into effect in late March 1977. All commodities require export permits f rom the Exchange Controller and some require in addition the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a perm i t, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, which presently are rare, exporters must obtain f u ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licens- ing system is used to ensure that fore ign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in a m ax imum of Br 50 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except in the case of temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. 148 Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict undesirable outflows, to preclude an unwar- ranted accumulation of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, wh ich is required for any later repatriation. There is no prescription regarding the currencies in which fore ign investments may be accepted. Foreign capital may participate with the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate docu- mentation, foreign businessmen having nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liqui- dation and final departure f rom Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 40,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. Transfers by persons who are leaving on term ina t ion of their employ- ment contracts with the Government or with private organizations are limited to 40-50 per cent of the appli- cant's total net income, depending on marital status and on whether the applicant has had free accommodation or not. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 40,000 in any one calendar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Normally, evidence must be presented that all possibilities for domestic borrowing have been exhausted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign cur- rency w i thout National Bank permission. Also, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts w i th foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or of gold or p la t inum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, con- stitutes an offense. Certain newly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1977 January 1. Exchange commissions and service charges for foreign currencies other than the U.S. dollar were reduced; the sum of the commissions and the charges would be 0.75 per cent buying and 2.25 per cent selling. January 5. The National Bank issued new foreign exchange regulations which included the following pro- visions: ( 1) Residents of Ethiopia were prohibited f rom holding bank accounts abroad. (2) Mar i t ime insurance was restricted to the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The restriction prescribing shipment by na t ional carriers was rescinded by the first amendment to the new regula- tions. (3) The limit on current remittances by fo re ign nationals was reduced from 35 per cent to 30 per cent of monthly salaries, and for private sector employees remittances up to that l im it were permitted for the first three years of residence, compared with six years previ- ously. The cumu la t ive total of remittances ( inc lud ing transfers on final departure) was raised in some cases, however, from a flat 40 per cent of total net earnings to a range of 40-50 per cent, depending on mar i tal status and the type of accommodation that had been provided. ETHIOPIA (4) The provision whereby self-employed foreign na- tionals might remit 35 per cent of earnings was with- d rawn, but they might still repatriate up to Br 40,000 in capital annua l ly upon final departure. (5) Allowances for tourism were eliminated for persons under 18. (6) The amount of Ethiopian banknotes that might be taken out of or brought into the country was reduced from Br 100 to Br 50. (7) Foreign exchange must be declared on entry. (8) Exports on a consignment basis were no longer permitted. March 31. Exports of horsebeans were temporarily suspended. May 17. Duties on luxury goods were raised as fol- lows: ( 1) vehicles worth more than Br 10,000, from 125 per cent to 185 per cent; (2) alcohol, f rom 50 per cent to 80 per cent; ( 3) cosmetics, from 65 per cent to 100 per cent; (4) perfumes, from 60 per cent to 100 per cent; and (5) hair dyes, from 10 per cent to 100 per cent. September 19. The Foreign Exchange Regulations of January 5 were amended. The National Bank of Ethi- opia required that it be consulted regarding all imports of nonessential goods on a cash-against-documents basis. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 57 ,1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Fiji Dollar has been established with the Fund. On February 25, 1974 a central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1 was established, and Fiji availed itself of wider margins. Since April 7, 1975, however, exchange rates have been determined daily on the basis of a weighted average of the currencies of Fiji's major trading partners. The Central Monetary Authority of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. For telegraphic transfers, the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were F$ 1.1572 and F$ 1.1402, respectively, per US$1. On August 4, 1972, Fiji formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Authority, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Monetary Authority delegates to authorized dealers (banks alone are authorized dealers in F i j i) the authority to approve normal import payments. Except with the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, which are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. The prescribed manner of payment for exports to any destination outside Fiji is payment in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency of a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Authority. These accounts may be credited freely with interest pay- able on the account, payments from other External 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. All foreign currencies are regarded as specified currencies and hence must normally be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country outside Fiji. As regards indi- viduals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for a period of at least three years. 150 Accounts, the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a tempo- rary visit; in addition, External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when originating in countries other than Rhodesia. However, import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific licenses, including passenger automo- biles, seed potatoes, flour, tea, sharps, mild steel bars and rods, and steel welded mesh, and licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Authorized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Author- ized banks may authorize advance payments for all imports provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or non- delegated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Authority. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Au- thority, a foreign currency travel allowance for private or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For extended visits, a traveler may apply to the Central Monetary Authority while overseas, through his bank, for funds in excess of F$2,000 a .person a trip. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each trav- eler may take with him F$50 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$200 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank and/or the Central Monetary Authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are obliged to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers, irrespective of the currency con- cerned. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other former Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area currencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of former Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Foreign investment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by residents to finance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority and are normally permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. All authorized banks operating in Fiji are required to obtain prior authorization from the Central Monetary Authority for transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). Banks also require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before any loans are granted to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such ap- proval to lend up to F$ 1,000—for any period and any FIJI purpose—to individual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and residents require permission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency from anyone in Fiji or from any source outside Fiji. The transfer of inheritances and dowries which are due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are also allowed to make cash gifts equivalent to F$500 a donor a year to nonresidents; additional funds are permitted in compas- sionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a maximum of F$ 1,000 a person a year to acquire foreign currency securities with the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control permission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. The net foreign liabilities of banks are subject to a cash reserve requirement of 5 per cent. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins but not gold bullion in Fiji. The export of gold coins, except numis- matic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports from all sources require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. A commemorative gold coin of F$100 has been issued. It is legal tender but does not normally circulate. Changes during 1977 October 14. Importation of the following items was prohibited: wood and wood products, cooking pots, and compounds used in the manufacture of incense sticks and expanded foam or sponge shapes. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Kate System Since the amendment of the Currency Act, which took effect on November 1, 1977, the external value of the Finnish Ma rkka is defined as a currency index number (1974 = 100) reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These currencies are defined as the currencies of those countries which have accounted for not less than 1 per cent of the total of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the last three calendar years. The fluctuation limits are 2.5 per cent on each side of the theoretical arithmetic mean. The va lue of the currency index was 109.8 on November 1, 1977. The upper fluctuation limit is 112.0 and the lower limit is 107.1. The buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Finland for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 30, 1977, were Fmk 4.009 and Fmk 4.027 per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the U.S. dollar and the clearing ruble at which authorized banks may cover their contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transaction permitted by the exchange control regulations; otherwise, forward pre- m iums and discounts reflect in terna t ional forward quota- tions. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible or externally con- vertible currencies.' The Bank of Finland concludes forward transactions for periods ranging from 3 to 12 months. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial bank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries 1 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency 1 At the end of 1977 Finland had bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 152 of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R. and Roman ia, the clearing Finnish markka for the People's Republic of China, and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases).2 Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish ma rkkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, w i th Finnish currency received direct from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, w i th amoun ts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, with amounts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th which Finland has bilateral payments arrangements, and are designated according to the holder's country of residence. They may be held in Finnish markkaa or the appropriate bilateral agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred from Convertible Accounts and from Restricted Accounts related to the same country; also, the accounts may be credited with Finnish currency received f rom a bank in the country indicated on the account, with amounts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the account, with currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident ac- counts. The assignment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected (w i th some minor exceptions), only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. A monetary institution may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemp- tion payments and interest on matured bonds and deben- tures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange; also, rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, proceeds f rom other assets belonging to the 2 Settlements with Czechoslovakia and Poland have been effected in U.S. dollars since 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a contract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value to be utilized in Finland, and interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for non- commercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Bank of Finland generally grants permission for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agree- ments) ,3 provided that the goods are purchased f rom and originate in that area. Specified consumer durables, however, are temporarily subject to surveillance licens- ing, irrespective of origin. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 value quotas for specified commodity groups. The total value of the global quotas for 1977 was less than 1 per cent of total 1977 imports. Another group of goods also requires an individual license when imported from the multilateral area; these are set out in the discretionary licensing list, which comprises only agricultural commodities, coal, coke, and petroleum products. The only com- modities still subject to quantitative restrictions for the multilateral area are agricultural commodities, fuels, and unwrought gold and silver; the consumer durable goods mentioned above are licensed freely. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and shipped from the U.S.S.R., or origi- nating in and shipped f rom the four countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, and Hunga ry ). Quan- titative restrictions on imports from the U.S.S.R. and these four countries have been reduced to the levels applicable to goods originating in the multilateral area. In addition, many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries are free of license. Imports under license from the bilateral coun- tries are admitted up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of commodities originating in countries classified neither in the multi- 3 The exceptions are Republic of China, North Korea, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. FINLAND lateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made w i th in 12 months after the arrival of goods in the coun- t ry; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless specially authorized by the Bank of Finland; if the payment is made to the seller by using an import financing credit, the credit period may not exceed 6 months. Under a temporary "cash payment scheme," however, payment for specified imports must be made, or the markka equivalent of the purchase price must be deposited with the Bank of Finland, before the goods are released by the customs authorities. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions (relating to transport and insur- ance ), residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with nonresidents. Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect pay- ments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, ex- change licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Fin- land. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may provide foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 1,000 a calendar month for each remitter. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip. A Finnish traveler abroad may also withdraw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, pro- vided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and make the payment after return. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins de- clared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 3,000. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to countries that are not in the multilateral area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrange- ments. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invis- ibles do not have to be surrendered but must be repatri- ated within eight days of collection. The exchange may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unutilized foreign banknotes and travelers checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the surrender requirement up to Fmk 3,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who during the last calendar year have resided outside Finland and continue to do so may tranfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange with Capital Account funds is also permitted automatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds f rom the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other security transactions, and the export of securities that involve nonresident interests, require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. 154 The regulations concerning inward direct investment are as follows: All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland. The Bank grants permission liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of author- ized direct investments is free from approval. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually granted liberally. Direct foreign investment in the forest and m in ing industries and in certain tradi- t iona l ly regulated activities is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in fore ign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. Authorized banks, however, are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 75,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an auto- matic exchange allowance of less than Fmk 2,000 a calendar month for each donor for gifts and contribu- tions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the form of short-term or medium-term financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and timing. Lending to nonresidents is normally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is subject to a selective deposit requirement, the terms of which are set ad hoc by the Bank of Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form within Finland. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1977 March 1. The list of goods for which cash payment or deposit with the Bank of Finland is required before ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the goods are cleared through customs was extended to cover about one third of imports instead of about 18 per cent. The goods that were added included certain raw materials and semifinished products, whereas pre- viously the list contained mainly consumer goods. A further adjustment was made on July 1, when imports of certain raw materials and industrial products were exempted from the requirement, while a few other items were made subject to the requirement. The net result of the latter changes was to reduce the coverage to about 30 per cent of Finland's imports. April 5. The external value of the Finnish markka was depreciated by 5.7 per cent against the Bank of Finland's trade-weighted basket of currencies. June 21. The Bank of Finland decided upon certain amendments to its Decision on the Execution of the Law on Foreign Exchange. These amendments, which would extend the authorized banks' rights over foreign exchange, were mainly concerned with revisions in cer- tain restrictions and with indicating time periods or markka amounts. The amendments came into force on July 1. July 1. In accordance with the free trade agreement with the EEC, Finland further reduced import duties on most industrial goods of EEC origin. FINLAND July 1. Finland joined the Inter-American Develop- ment Bank. September 1. The external value of the Finnish markka was depreciated by 3 per cent against the Bank of Finland's trade-weighted basket of currencies. October 28. The Currency Act was amended so as to jexpress the external value of the Finnish markka in terms of a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. The Bank of Finland would maintain the currency index number within the prescribed limits. The Government decided that with effect from November 1, the currency index number for the Finnish markka should be determined by the trade-weighted exchange rates for the currencies of those countries which accounted for not less than 1 per cent of the total value of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the last three calendar years. Using 1974 as the base period, the value of the currency index on November 1 was 109.8. The upper fluctuation limit was 112.0 and the lower limit 107.1, providing for maximum variations of 2.25 per cent on either side of the theoretical arithmetic mean. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc, and France avails itself of wider margins. No announced margins are maintained for foreign cur- rencies.1 On December 31, 1977 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was F 4.7050 = US$1. Fixed conversion rates in terms of French francs apply to the currencies of the following countries and territories: the Operations Account countries,2 the French Overseas Territories, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides. These conversion rates have been maintained at pre-August 15, 1971 levels. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports and of certain merchanting trans- actions, but their forward sales of foreign currency are free, whether or not there is an underlying transaction. On the import side, forward cover is available for some commodities for 6 or 12 months, and for all others for 2 months. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Martinique, Guiana, Reunion, and St. Pierre et Miquelon), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Futuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in , re la t ion to Monaco or the Operations Account countries; 2 pay- ments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the French side and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered for-* eign countries for exchange control purposes; 3 all pay- i rThe currencies that are officially quoted are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zai'res. 2 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Benin, Cameroon, Centrai A f r ican Empire, Chad, Comoros, People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 3 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the concept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect f rom Janua ry 31, 1967. In the con- text of countries' overall relations with France, however, the concept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Mone- tary Union (Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); (2) the countries of the Central African Customs and Eco- 156 ments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member coun- tries of the EEC. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to the Operations Account countries and to Algeria, Cambodia, Guinea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mauritania, Tunisia, Viet Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides.4 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrow- ing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econo- mique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate nomic Union (Cameroon, Central African Empire, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon) and Chad; (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); (4) two former Operations Account countries (Madagascar and Mauritania); and (5) two other countries (Comoros and N£ali). This broad definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. In the context of France's monetary relations, the con- cept of French Franc Area is narrower, excluding the countries of groups (3) and (4). 4 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of Janua ry 30, 1967 of the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for cer ta in imports and exports are issued by the appropriate m in is t ry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Ind irect Taxes. The M in i s t ry of Indus t r ial and Scientific Development has cer ta in responsibilities in respect of licensing con- tracts and contracts re la t ing to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in French f rancs or the currency issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury.5 Settlements w i th all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those coun t r ies or through non res ident Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. Settlements w i th Algeria, Morocco, and Tun is ia, however, usually take place in French francs. Importers and exporters are f ree to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonres ident account in f rancs may be free ly opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, inc lud ing French nationals (other than o f f ic ia ls) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All ove rd ra f ts and ad- vances on nonresident-held f r a nc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be f ree ly credited with ( 1) the f r a nc proceeds of the spot or fo rwa rd sale of fo re ign currencies on the exchange m a rk et by a nonresident; (2) the f r a nc proceeds of the sale of foreign bankno tes to an au thor ized bank by a nonres ident bank or traveler; ( 3) the f r anc equ iva lent of an author- ized bank's a rb i t rage in fore ign currencies on a fo re ign ma rke t; (4) French bankno tes (and those of the Opera- tions Account coun tr ies) mailed direct f r om abroad to the ma in office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's fore ign correspondents; ( 5) t rans fe rs f rom other Foreign Accounts in Francs; ( 6) any authorized pay- ment by a resident to a nonres iden t, in c lud ing interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; ( 7) the sales proceeds, income, and amor t iza t ion f rom French and foreign securities held in a fore ign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance; (8) l iqu ida t ion proceeds of nonresident-held direct inves tmen ts c or real estate; and ( 9) the proceeds of the sale, through the in te rmed ia ry of a no tary public, of real estate be long ing to non res iden ts. These accounts may be free ly debited for ( 1) spot pu r- chases of any fore ign currency on the exchange market 5 In add i t ion to the in s t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Account coun tr ies, the Overseas In s t i tu te of Issue ( for New Ca ledon ia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, Wallis and F u t u na Islands, and St. Pierre et M ique lon ). 6 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Feb rua ry 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. FRANCE by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresident of fo re ign bankno tes or withdrawals in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in fore ign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign cor- respondents; ( 5) t rans fe rs to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by non res iden ts ;6 (7) purchases of real estate from resi- dents, through the intermediary of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance w i th the relevant regulations by residents; and (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident. If French francs accruing to a nonresident are not t rans fe rab le, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in f rancs in the name of the beneficiary; balances up to F 50,000 that existed on August 9, 1973 have been released. The unremittable funds of emigrants of French nationality must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) un t il they be- come nonresidents (i.e., until they have stayed in a fore ign country for two y e a r s ); emigrants of fore ign na t iona l i ty become nonresidents immediately and there- fo re may take out all of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom other parts of the French Franc Area or from certain other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted f ree of quanti- ta t ive restrictions and ind iv idual licenses. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require indi- v idual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports f rom non-EEC countries are subject to m i n im um prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports requ ire certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups accord- ing to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the fo rmer OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain fo rmer dependent territories, Ando r ra, Canada, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Liberia, Sudan, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) 47 specified coun tr ies ;7 ( 3) the Eastern European countries (A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.) and the People's Republic of China; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Goods covered 7 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bu rma, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, I raq, Israel, Japan, Jo rdan, Korea, Lebanon, L ibyan A rab Jamah i r iya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zea land, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, P a r agu ay, Pe ru, Philippines, Saudi Arab ia, South A f r i c a, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, U r u g u a y, Venezue la, Yemen A rab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit f rom the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agri- cultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different countries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Hong Kong and Macao. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group ( 2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged trea tmen t). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do require a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation (registration) of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the central Customs Administration or by the appropriate m in is try is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require licenses when originating in non- ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Payments for imports f rom foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market. Import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. The amounts that may be transferred through postal chan- nels are not subject to limitation, but in practice the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 50,000 as it does not undertake domiciliation. 158 Authorized banks may without special authorization allow advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Administration. For all im- ports, importers may purchase spot foreign currency eight working days before utilization; utilization cannot take place before the payment falls due. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. Two months' forward cover for import payments can be obtained for any commodity; for the import of specified raw materials and specified foodstuffs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) forward cover for six months or one year is avail- able. The foreign currency may be purchased forward at the time of domiciliation, but the maturity of the forward exchange contract must not be later than the date on which the commercial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If jus t i fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limitation; for certain other categories of current invisibles, estab- lished limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applica- tions are approved if a genuine current payment is in- volved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person, provided that the transfers do not constitute installments of payments exceeding F 1,500, are not for purposes subject to special allocation, and do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Payments which may be authorized without limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners em- ployed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer- tain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allocation for business travel is the same plus the equiva- lent of F 500 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unutilized foreign cur- rency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs, as may hotel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French bank- notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in means of payments acquired in the ex- change market against a tourist travel allocation. Non- resident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F5',000 in foreign banknotes unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of pay- ment established in their name abroad; also, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the official exchange market. The repatriation 8 and, where appro- 8 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. FRANCE priate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries is required, normally within one month of the date on which the payment falls due but in any case within 8 working days of receipt by a French bank. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the exchange market, as may the proceeds from the dis- coun t ing of foreign currency drafts presented by ex- porters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, therefore, the due date of the export receipts) may not be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization, or, when a guarantee by the Compagnie Franchise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been ob- tained. Export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by d^bit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions related to foreign countries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the Director- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation re- quirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun- tries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date and in any case within eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or trav- elers checks in excess of F 1,000 within a month of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securi- ties abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct invest- m e n t ). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to pur- chase real estate abroad for personal use as their prin- cipal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a fam i ly un i t. The t rans fer abroad of nonresident-owned fund s, inc lud ing the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and fore ign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited w i th an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etr anger de valeurs mobilieres); French and foreign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be t rans- ferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited with an au thor ized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qua l if ied bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French author- ized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French securities held in France is pro- hibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct inves tment that are summarized below, residents may f ree ly purchase French and fore ign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks, except, however, equities w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than five years issued by foreign governments.9 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange market w i th in two months of receipt, unless used within that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, non- residents holding French or fore ign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or la te r) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many in- stances affected by exchange control requirements. With e The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. 160 the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not ap- plicable to member countries of the EEC, where direct investment transactions are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad, including loans constituting a direct investment, require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance; as regards member countries of the EEC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment opera- tions liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participa- tion in any other type of firm may be considered a direct inves tmen t. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluating the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting f rom stock options, pat- ents and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. Except in respect of EEC countries, the Minister may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him within two months from receipt of the declaration. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days after it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized earlier in this paragraph, the making or liquidation of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt f rom prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 3 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the trans- actions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financ- ing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Also, certain inward direct invest- ment up to F 3 million a transaction is exempt f rom prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt f rom authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the French Govern- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt f rom this au thor i- zation: (1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execu- tion of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; ( 3) loans related to certain in te rna t ional merchan t ing transac t ions; (4) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income f rom labor or cap i ta l ), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans contracted by banks ex- pressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized b a n k s ); and (6) foreign currency bo r row ing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrow ing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the fo re ign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each draw ing against the loan is separated by at least one year f rom the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Euro- francs are subject to prior au thor iza t ion. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrow ing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, within the f rame- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend fore ign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the gran t ing of guarantees and va ry ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in f rancs, however, is prohibited, with minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and the ir overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free f rom limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, inc lud ing treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private d ra f ts. Authorized banks may freely sell fo re ign exchange on the official exchange ma rket for the account of non- residents, spot or fo rwa rd. They are allowed to pay interest on nonresident-owned f r anc or fore ign currency deposits. Nonresident-held f ranc deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, FRANCE 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of gold into or f rom the territory of continental France require prior authoriza- tion by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for monetary gold but usually is given for industrial gold. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manu- fac tured articles containing only a m inor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under export licenses gran ted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, are subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangements and to licensing by the Bank of France. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of mone ta ry gold (bars and coins) are not subject to value- added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt f rom customs du ty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1977 January 16. New regulations were issued with respect to imports dur ing 1977 from Israel and Japan which remain under quota. February 5. New regulations were issued with respect to imports during 1977 from Korea which rema in under quota. February 22. In order to provide financial assistance to exporters, it was announced that additional govern- ment loans (Credits Segard) would be made available up to an amount of F 3 billion at a privileged 9 per cent interest rate to finance medium-term investment of companies committing themselves to increasing the export component of their total sales by five points in four years; also, loans would be made available to governments of developing countries as an incentive for the purchase of French capital goods. Such loans could total F 1.8 billion (20 per cent more than in 1976) at 3 per cent interest for up to 30 years. March 2. Quotas were reintroduced for certain cotton, silk, and ju te products from India. March 3. The value-added tax was suspended for goods intended for re-exportation f rom France. March 9. Global quotas for 1977 and special quotas for textile products from Spain and live animals from Andorra were set. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE April 4. A distinction, based on the criterion of ownership of the goods was established between "mer- chants" and "salesmen" engaged in international trade. The latter could no longer avail themselves of the pro- visions related to international trade. Moreover, the regime of international trade was relaxed somewhat, mainly as regards payments in currency between two resident merchants exchanging goods that one sells to and the other buys from nonresidents. May 5. Modifications were announced to the COFACE scheme to insure exporting companies against "ab- normal" (in excess of 6.5 per cent) price increases on fixed-price capital goods contracts of more than one year's duration. The premium of 1 per cent of the value of the contract remained unchanged, but, in fu ture, companies would be required to pay a surcharge equiva- lent to one third of the rate of depreciation of the franc against the SDR. In addition, the retail price index, adjusted by 30 per cent of the difference between it and the hourly wage rate index, would be used instead of the wage rate index in calculating compensation. June 22. Measures were announced to control imports of textiles. For men's shirts, women's blouses, T-shirts, and cotton thread, import quotas were introduced to restrict the level of imports to that of 1976. The action, taken as a safeguard measure under Article 19 of the GATT, was to remain in force until the end of 1977. However, these measures were replaced by restrictions announced by the EEC Commission on July 13. July 17. The ceiling on foreign investment in France carried out without authorization through loans and guarantees to French subsidiaries was raised from F2 million to F3 million. French agricultural investments abroad could no longer be undertaken up to a ceiling of F 3 million without prior authorization. July 24. It was announced that the ceiling on the global amount of short-term bank export credits to small and medium-sized companies would be raised by F 500 million. September 14. In line with EEC procedures, the certificate of origin requirement was extended to imports of fertilizers, certain textile products, certain electrical appliances and other electrical equipment, and to toys, games, and sports equipment. October 12. The ceiling on imports of petroleum and petroleum products, which had been F55 billion for 1977, was raised to F 58 billion for 1978. December 19. The EEC Commission announced that with effect from January 1, 1978, compensatory levies would be imposed on imports of steel products if prices fell below stated reference prices. These measures were to remain in effect until April 1, 1978. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Participation super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Participation who has delegated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermedi- aries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorization, where necessary, are issued by the Direc- torate of External Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other 1The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Empire, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in France. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Libreville by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central Afri- can Customs and Economic Union (UDJBAC) are free of all formalities. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (where the value is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts a provisional authorization is given to avoid administrative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products 2 are subject to licensing, but, in prac- tice, licenses are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Prior authorizations to import entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted in due form to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip 2 Such as cement, wheat, and batteries. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange rema in ing a f ter return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and busi- ness travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bankno tes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such bankno tes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers through the banking or postal system may be effected w i thout l im i t. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require au thor iza t ion, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun try must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received w i th in 180 days a f ter the arr ival of the commodities at their desti- nation. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a fore ign currency, w i th in one mon th of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected, and, if received in fore ign currency, be surrendered, w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in- taining an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries requ ire the approval of the Direc- torate of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and 164 titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresi- dents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of fo re ign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad 3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Participation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the f u ll or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- qu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon 4 must be declared to the M in is ter, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months f rom receipt of the declara- tion the Minister may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct invest- ments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as con- s t i tu t ing a direct investment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Participation. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Gabonese Government and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches 3 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in te rmed ia t ion of fore ign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Participation. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Participation. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak- ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. A minimum GABON of 10 per cent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive pro- tection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Participation. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 March 22. The system of authorization to import was abolished for all imports valued at less than CFAp 500,000. May 19. The system of prior authorization to import was temporarily suspended, until the end of August. June 1. It was announced that travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries might not export CFA or French banknotes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel. For business travel the amount of such banknotes that might be car- ried out was the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers through the banking or postal system might be effected without limit. September 1. The system of import authorizations and licenses to import was restored. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.426562 gram of fine gold per Gambian Dalasi. Since June 1972, however, the authorities, while maintaining a fixed relationship be- tween the dalasi and sterling, have not maintained the exchange rate for other currencies within prescribed margins. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals only in sterling and charges a commission of 0.0625 per cent buying, and 0.5 per cent selling, based on the fixed rate of <£ stg. 1 = D 4. The commercial banks deal w i th customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the Central Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign cur- rencies for imports covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry pay- ments abroad. All other sales of foreign currencies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and with Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments from residents of other countries, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other cur- rencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of other currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, or 166 moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are freely permitted under an open general license if im- ported from the following countries: (1) all countries within the former Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States together with the overseas terri- tories of these countries; and (3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the. Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries. Settlement for imports from other countries may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports that do not require specific licensing, payment authoriza- tion is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance pay- ments for imports, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accord- ance with normal commercial practice. Payments for imports may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any currency other than Rhodesian currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Imports made by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles in foreign currencies require permission from the Central Bank, with the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Per- mission is given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel abroad. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide resi- dents with exchange facilities up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day, subject to a maximum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission from the Central Bank; all applications are approved, pro- vided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amounts, up to D 250 may be taken out in foreign cur- rency notes and coins. Irrespective of destination, a traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian and/or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when enter- ing the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requirements, the export of char- coal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all goods to Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also requires a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely per- mitted under an open general license. The Gambia Pro- duce Marke t ing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received within six months from the date of export in a currency other than Rhodesian currency or in dalasis or sterling from an External Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restric- tion on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. THE GAMBIA Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but out- ward transfers are subject to control. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident inves- tors may apply for a clearance from the Central Bank for subsequent repatriation of capital; the remittance of profits is allowed freely after provision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gambia. All other applications to transfer capital abroad are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authoriza- tion is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United King- dom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be im- ported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1977 March 7. Countries of the former Sterling Area were no longer given special treatment, but were placed on equal footing with all other countries for exchange control purposes. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark. A central rate of DM 1 = SDR 0.316792 has been established, and G e rm any1 avails itself of wider margins. Germany ma in ta ins a maximum margin of 2.25 per cent for exchange rates in transactions between the deutsche mark and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the Luxembourg f ranc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Norwegian krone. No announced margins are observed for other currencies. On December 30, 1977 the closing buying rate for the U.S. dollar in F rank fu rt was DM2 .1000 per US$1. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transac- tions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may freely enter into forward exchange trans- actions among themselves and with nonresidents, irre- spective of whether there is an underlying transaction. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Min- istry of Finance, the Federal M in is try of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Fed- eral Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz) of 1961 has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transac- tions between residents and nonresidents.2 The Deutsche Bundesbank (the central b ank) is in charge of the imple- mentation of the capital controls. The Bundesbank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money mar- ket paper and fixed-interest securities of German issuers with a remaining maturity of less than four years or that are eligible for delivery under en pension transactions within the same maturity. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates rec- ommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (Wes t). 2 The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in Article 4, Section 1, and Article 4a of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law. 168 Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 8,606 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: some 7,296 items may be imported free of license from any country except Rhodesia. Commodities corresponding to some 8,300 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Coun t ry List A /B .: >> Certain petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal f rom countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty are permitted w i th in the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC covers 1,361 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EEC regulations. De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (315 statistical items) when originating in and purchased f rom Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA 4 p rocedu re ). Imports of certain commodities among those not sub- ject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Industry. These import declarations are partly prescribed by the EEC. For imports still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (with certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small p a r c e l s ) ,^n ind iv idual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschrei- bung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first- come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open (AMLA procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out ind iv idual license, except to Rhodesia. German and 3 Countries in List A /B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, CMEA countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, and Viet Nam. Rhodesia is not included in any of the three country lists for imports. 4 Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traffic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insur- ance, except passenger accident insurance; and the pro- duction of motion pictures in association with non- residents.5 Exports and Export Proceeds Only certain commodities may be exported to Rho- desia. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, an export noti- fication is required, for statistical purposes. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. A similar system exists for agricultural com- modities, but generally for statistical reasons only. The customs authorities exercise control over export declara- tions. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and^for technical assistance through the delivery to resi- dents of List C countries (see footnote 3) of construc- tional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu- facture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and inter- national bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval, although a system of volun- tary coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Domestic and for- eign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of lega- cies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. B Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition f rom nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Only a few types of capital inflows remain restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is required only for sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities of German issuers with less than four years rema in ing to ma tur i ty, as well as for en pension transactions with nonresidents involving fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in less than four years. At present, such approval is not being given. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax" ). Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requ iremen ts on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1977 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, i.e., 12.75 per cent, 8.95 per cent, and 5.65 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively.6 The principal exemption is for banks' for- eign currency borrowings that are immediately reinvested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any fo rm w i th residents or nonresidents at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports require a license f rom the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia. With these exceptions, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent.7 Imports of mone tary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are recog- nized by the M in is try of Finance as having legal tender status ( inc lud ing sovereigns, Krugerrand, and 10-ruble coins) are exempt f rom this tax and f rom customs duty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent 7 or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent.8 Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not recognized as legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports. °On Janua ry 1, 1978, these rates were increased to 20 per cent, 15 per cent, and 10 per cent, respectively. At the same time an additional marginal deposit requirement of 80 per cent took effect on the increase of banks' fore ign liabilities over their average level du r ing the period September 16-December 15, 1977. 7 Increased to 12 per cent with effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1978. 8 Increased to 6 per cent with effect from J anu a ry 1, 1978. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in practically all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1977 March 24. The Federal Office for Trade and Industry published a list of items whose export to Rhodesia is permitted without approval. This list replaced the nega- tive list for exports to Rhodesia of January 2, 1975. April 4. The Danish krone and the Norwegian krone were devalued by 3 per cent and the Swedish krona was devalued by 6 per cent vis-a-vis the currencies of the remaining four participants of the European common margins agreement. May 18. The Bundesbank announced that, with effect from June 1, 1977, rediscount quotas would be raised by DM 2.5 billion and minimum reserve requirements would be lowered by 5 per cent. June 17. The Federal Cabinet decided to ban, until further notice, the sale of nuclear fuel reprocessing plants and related technology. July 1. The tariff harmonization between the six original EEC members and Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom was completed. At the same time most tariffs (except for tar iffs on agricultural products and those on a few sensitive industrial items) between the EEC and EFTA, including its associated member Fin- land, were reduced to zero. August 8. With effect from August 15, 1977, imports of chromium ore and ferrochromium from South Africa and Namibia (South West A f r ica) became subject to approval in an effort to prevent such imports from Rhodesia (61st Ordinance Amending the Import List). August 11. The EEC Commission authorized Ger- many not to apply Community treatment to certain men's and boys' outer garments and certain woven fabrics originating in the People's Republic of China which enjoy free circulation in the other EEC member countries. The restrictions could be applied to imports in respect of which license applications were made after July 26, 1977 and July 25, 1977, respectively (Commis- sion Decisions Nos. 77/637/EEC and 77 /638 /EEC ). August 25. The Central Bank Council decided to lower, with effect from September 1, 1977, the minimum reserve requirements by 10 per cent, thereby releasing about DM 4.5 billion of central bank money. In addi- tion, banks' rediscount quotas were to be raised by DM 2 billion. August 29. Sweden terminated its association with the European common margins agreement. At the same time, the Danish krone and the Norwegian krone were devalued by 5 per cent vis-a-vis the deutsche mark as well as the Belgian franc, the Luxembourg f ranc and the Netherlands guilder. September 30. The Government formally abolished the cash deposit requirements for defaulters (Barde- potnachhaltepflicht). (The cash deposit scheme on borrowing from nonresidents had been abolished in September 1974. The deposit requirements, however, remained in force for those borrowers who failed to comply w i th these requirements in time.) October 18. An offset agreement was signed between Germany and the United Kingdom to compensate the latter in part for the foreign exchange cost of stationing troops in Germany. The amount of DM 475 million was to be made available over three years in decreasing installments. November 30. The Federal Cabinet limited the pro- vision of public guarantees for exports to South Africa to individual orders whose value did not exceed DM 50 million and to maturities up to five years. Exceptions could be made, however, e.g., where losing the order would entail the risk of increased unemployment in a sector already suffer ing from high unemployment. To become eligible for public guarantees ( 1) enterprises with plants in South Africa had to accompany their application with a declaration that they were willing to comply with the EEC's code of conduct on the treat- ment of black workers in South Africa and ( 2) exporters had to pledge that the merchandise exported to South Africa would not be re-exported to Rhodesia. December 15. With effect from January 1, 1978, the m in imum reserve requirements on the level of banks' foreign liabilities were raised from 12.75 per cent to 20 per cent for sight deposits, from 8.95 per cent to 15 per cent for time deposits, and f rom 5.65 per cent to 10 per cent for savings deposits. Also f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, an additional marginal reserve requirement of 80 per cent was imposed for the increase in banks' for- eign liabilities over their average level during the period September 16-December 15, 1977. With immediate effect, the Bundesbank would no longer approve the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities with a remaining maturity of above two and up to four years. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.450182 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian Cedi. Since February 15, 1973, however, the Bank of Ghana has dealt at an official rate of (2 1 = US$0.8696. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and 17 other currencies.1 On December 31, 1977 the Bank's selling rates were 01.15 per US$1 and 02.20 per £ stg. 1. Different effective exchange rates arise on account of a tax on travel allocations, and for certain export proceeds as a result of an export bonus scheme, and for certain import payments as a result of mandatory cash margin deposits against letters of credit. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that Ministry, to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or gov- ernment agency for endorsement. Applications are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on imports, supervised by the Import License Allocation Commission on which the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the armed forces, and the Chamber of Commerce are rep- resented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries in the former Sterling Area may be made in cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in ster- ling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. of Ghana to residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts from residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, may be obtained in cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non- Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and /or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from ex- ports to countries with which Ghana does not have pay- ments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Liberia, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries within the former Sterling Area, other than Ghana, with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with author- ized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Sterling Area coun- tries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries out- side the former Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, with authorized banks .in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening, of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of former Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies, other than Rho- desian currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments by residents of the former Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for pur- chases of non-Sterling Area currencies, other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official 2 Ghana maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Egypt, and Romania. Certain transactions with Yugoslavia are settled over special accounts. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Accounts" or 'Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of former Sterling Area countries, with trans- fers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements w i th bilateral payments agreement countries, and w i th proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies, other than Rho- desian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Off ic ial Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia, South Africa, and Nam ib ia (South West A f r ica) are not permitted. Imports of some goods, including v ir tua l ly all textiles and textile products, chocolate, and chilled or frozen fish, are pro- hibited. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed h a rm f ul to health or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports. Applications for the importation of items on the restricted list are norma l ly not approved. Certain basic items, such as rice and sugar, which appear on the restricted list, may be imported on ly by the Logistics Committee through the Ghana Na t ional Procurement Agency. There is an open general license wh ich permits any importer to import free ly f rom any coun try trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domestic pets, headloads of food- s tu f fs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Gha- naian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items require either a specific import license or a special unnumbered license.3 There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses. Specific import licenses are issued for items that are considered essential w i th in the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchas- ing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be im- ported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. 3 Special unnumbered licenses may be issued for the import of certain commodities where evidence is produced that no official transfer of foreign exchange has been or will be involved. 172 Exchange for payment of approved imports is nor- ma l ly granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. Arrears exist w i th respect to current import payments and the repayments of matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghana ian banks, and usually on a sight basis. Cash margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of letters of credit for most imports. The rates applicable are nil for crude oil and fertilizers; 25 per cent for industrial raw materials, chemicals, spare parts, lubricants, drugs and other medical supplies, and building materials; 50 per cent for machinery and equipment (including trans- port equipment other than automobiles); and 65 per cent for all other goods, including private passenger automobiles. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank d ra ft unless the import docu- ments include a Clean Report of Findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited, which in- spects price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. The following categories of payments are normally authorized in connection w i th the importation of goods: ( 1) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buy ing com- mission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (2) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. The payment of buy ing commission on imports is not per- mitted. Freight charges must be paid to the local ship- ping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are normally limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a max imum of <£ 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least <Z 1,000; this personal remittance quota covers all personal and fam i ly requirements and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Expatriate employees in the mining and petroleum industries and in certain other industries are not affected by the limit of (2 3,000, and fur thermore, are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Remit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed per- sons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of C 3,000. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident companies are permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits af ter tax; at present, however, profit transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by com- panies that are either foreign owned or owned or con- trolled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocations for tourist and busi- ness travel have been suspended. Travel allowances are determined by the Bank of Ghana in the light of the applicant's requirements; such allocations are subject to a tax of 30 per cent. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 15 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to (2 100, provided that not more than the equivalent of (2 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes up to (2 20 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, and Nam ib ia (South West A f r ica) are prohibited. Exports to any destination of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are ex- ported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Marketing Board, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, spe- cific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external Afr ican cur- rencies or convertible currencies may be granted an export bonus. This bonus is 30 per cent of the proceeds of "nontraditional" exports and 20 per cent of all other exports, except cocoa. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an author- ized bank. Under the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regulations, 1976, no visa or entry permit may be granted to travelers unless they have purchased in foreign exchange from Ghanaian embassies abroad or on arrival in Ghana vouchers corresponding to US$50 plus US$20 for each day of their stay in the country. Foreign cur- rency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghanaian currency notes in excess of (2 20 is prohibited. GHANA Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board if it is to enjoy the facilities under the Capital Investments Decree of 1973. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to for- eigners. Investments approved under the decree are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also avail- able for such investments. The decree stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fa ir compensation is to be deter- mined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Center for Set- tlement of Investment Disputes. Government policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many economic activi- ties. This policy is implemented primarily on the basis of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975 and the Ghana ian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depend ing on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the ind iv idual ap- proval of the Bank of Ghana. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without permission. In respect of portfolio in- vestments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresi- dents. New borrowing abroad is screened by the Perma- nent Review Committee on Public Agreements, which for private sector borrowing relies on the recommenda- tions of the Bank of Ghana. Private import credits in excess of (2 100,000 for machinery and equipment re- quire approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lending to non- residents is prohibited, except for export credits; these re- quire exchange control approval and normally are limited to 60 days. Borrowing abroad by commercial banks requires the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be author- ized by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism in collabo- ration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these ex- ceptions, no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefined form. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of (2 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1977 January 1. The import program for 1977 was offi- cially announced, envisaging the issuance of import licenses amounting to 0 1,150 million. February 9. Foreign exchange allocations for travel became subject to a levy at the rate of 10 per cent. At the same time, the tax on the purchase of airline tickets was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. February 21. The advance deposit required on im- ports of some lubricants was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent. February 23. A new five-year trade agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. was signed, replacing the long-term trade and payments agreements of November 4, 1961. Under the new agreement, all payments were to be effected in freely convertible currencies. July 1. The issuance of special unnumbered import licenses (SULs) was discontinued for the importation of goods in commercial quantities, except for trucks, agri- cultural machinery, spare parts, and food items. July 1. The 1977/78 budget provided that (1) the export bonus paid in cedis for "nontraditional" exports would be raised from 20 per cent to 30 per cent of the export value; all other exports, except cocoa, would become eligible for a 20 per cent bonus; (2) the struc- ture of import duties would be simplified; a 35 per cent duty would be imposed on imports that had formerly been subject to rates of up to 60 per cent, and a 60 per cent duty would be imposed on imports formerly subject to rates of 60 per cent or more; and (3) the levy on foreign exchange allocations for travel would be raised from 10 per cent to 30 per cent. July 1. The mandatory cash margin against imports of machinery and equipment for the timber industry was reduced from 50 per cent to 20 per cent. July 1. It was announced that selected manufac tur ing firms engaged in exports and in supplying basic con- sumer goods would be able to import their raw material and spare part requirements freely or within prescribed limits. Previously, these firms had to obtain import licenses for specific items. This "liberalization" would be reflected in the 1978 import program. August 12. As part of the simplification of the import tax structure, the import license tax of 10 per cent was abolished. September 1. The Ghana Timber Marketing Board was designated as the sole overland exporter of timber logs and specified timber products such as plywood and veneers, furniture, and furniture parts. November 25. The authorities approved transfers of dividends and profits that had been applied for before 1967 by the commerce and m in ing sectors, and before 1969 by all other sectors. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 37, 7977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma, and Greece has established a central rate of D r30 = US$1. On October 19, 1973, Greece announced that it would not for the time being ensure that the rates for the drachma would be kept within the margins observed hitherto. Since March 8, 1975, the drachma has been pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies. On December 31, 1977 the Bank of Greece (the central bank) quoted official rates for the U.S. dollar of Dr 35.164 buying, and Dr 35.874 selling, per US$1. * The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Rates for other currencies are determined daily on the basis of the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Greece offers for- ward exchange cover in U.S. dollars only. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance, the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcom- mittee, the Foreign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements, and import policy is made by the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce, and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements relating to permitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified invisible transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible* currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas 1 In addition to the U.S. ^dollar, the Bank of Greece maintains official quotations for Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fin- nish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pdunds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. It also quotes banknote rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bul- garia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the pro- ceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with author- ized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for cur- rent transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal f rom drachma accounts for use in Greece and any con- version of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. At the end of 1977, the maximum rate of interest on such accounts was 1.5 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a minimum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 5.5 and 7 per cent per annum, according to their term. Special regulations apply to nonresident investors, including Greek nationals permanently residing abroad (see section on Capital, below). Nonresidents may establish time deposits, under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, for a minimum period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, according to their term, and principal and interest are freely trans- ferable at maturity in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must under certain conditions be declared, and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 for each month of the visitor's stay in Greece, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1973; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other balances on blocked accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Greek citizens (including seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations oper- ating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through the interme- diary of a shipping firm established in Greece. At the end of 1977, balances on these accounts earned interest at 3 per cent per annum for sight deposits, up to 10 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 7 per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convert- ible into foreign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Somewhat similar facilities for foreign cur- rency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports (except those of goods on Lists F and P with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$300 or less, for which pay- ment will be made through an authorized bank) require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval, provided that approval is obtained subse- quently. The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports f rom countries previously participating in the European Monetary Agreement when payment is to be made in a convertible or exter- nally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procure- ment authorizations under U.S. aid; and ( 3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilat- eral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for certain imports effected for the account of the State, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. Import 176 approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, silver, precious stones, jewelry, furs, perfumes, textiles, automobiles and parts, television receivers, and certain foods tu f fs) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare par ts). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restrictively, but for others they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, sulfur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter trans- actions based on clearing agreements. All private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P.3 Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts (which is permitted only for goods in List P, there being no time limit for this list). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in List P. When time draf ts are accepted, a personal written under- tak ing amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the draft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in List F-100/1, a fur ther cash deposit of 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under pro- cedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2.4 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Secu- rity deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit at the end of 1977 for each list of imports are set out below. "> Of these six lists, Lists F and P are those containing all imports that are not subject to special payments or deposit regulations. 4 The total deposit required for used automobiles for private use, which are not included in any of these lists or in Lists F or P, is 150 per cent. No deposits are required for goods in Lists F and P. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ListF-50/1 L is tF-50 /2 List F-100/1 ListF-100/2 Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 70 24 9.6 33.6 100 40 140 48 19.2 67.2 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced. When imports arq financed with U.S. aid funds, a fu r ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank ( 1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under pro- cedure E, and (2) within 10 days ( f or Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of obtain- ing the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are re funded; however, for goods included in List F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of two to four months from the date on which they were made. The bank receiving the deposit must redeposit it with the Bank of Greece. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of under tak ing issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agen- cies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in List P, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped w i th in six mon ths and arrive in Greece w i th in nine months a f ter the date of import approval. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days follow- ing the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place w i th in 120 days fo l low ing the date of arrival for goods in List P. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-6 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents traveling abroad for fam i ly reasons or tour- ism are entitled to the equivalent of US$250 for one trip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participat- ing in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. The Bank of Greece norma l ly provides GREECE foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, within the following limits: US$2,000 a trip for exporters; US$1,500 a trip for industrialists and hotel managers; US$500 a trip for other businessmen; US$500 a trip for newspaper editors and travel agents; US$800 a trip for scientists attending international meetings; and US$500 a trip for newspaper reporters. For medical treatment abroad the Subcommittee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, or US$1,200, which the patient may take out. It also authorizes US$320 a month for studies in the United States and Canada and US$250 a month for studies in other foreign countries ( for postgraduate studies, up to US$375 and US$330, respectively). Travelers may take with them a max imum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in for- eign bankno tes without having declared them upon entry, provided that depar ture is w i th in 12 mon ths of arrival; the export of larger amounts after a visit of less than 12 mon ths is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declaration upon entry. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared, and for v is i ts of more than 12 months' dura t ion. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quan t i ta t ive limitation. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered within 180 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period to two years for manu- fac tures and to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of fru i t, and wines; such transactions are permitted with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.; in practice, how- ever, such barter transactions have ceased. In addition, any commodity may, subject to individual authorization by the Bank of Greece, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a max imum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next journey. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved for- eign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.5 Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975, further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which pro- mote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: ( 1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate produc- tively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respec- tively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, how- ever, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital rema in ing in 6 This decree also provides for the opening of fore ign currency accounts by nonresidents and the re t rans fer of the deposits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. 178 Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, pro- vided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enter- prises of special importance to the economy. Specified, foreign short-term investment may also be granted pref- erential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved with the exception that gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1977 February 18. Imports of tinned meat were transferred to List F, for which no prior import deposit is required. May 1. Import deposit requirements relating to items on Import Lists F-50/2 and F-100/2 were reduced by 8 per cent in accordance with the association agreement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE between Greece and the EEC. Deposits were set at 33.6 per cent of the c.i.f. value for items on List F-50/2 and at 67.2 per cent for items on List F-100/2. May 19. New taxes were imposed on luxury consumer items and high-powered cars. A consumption tax of 25 per cent was imposed on luxury goods, including alcoholic beverages, jewelry, perfumes, furs, and cam- eras. Taxes on cars with an engine capacity of more than 1,800 cubic centimeters were doubled. May 19. A new system for the assessment of import duties on cars came into effect. Import duty was to be based on the list price of the car in its domestic market, less any taxes due in the country of origin. Freight and insurance costs were to be added to this amount, which was then increased by 10 per cent to derive the final dutiable value in Greece. Previously, import duties had been calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. cost plus 10 per cent. July 1. The payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated and transactions were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect from January 1, 1978. August 1. Exchange controls relating to remittances abroad to member countries of the OECD for the pay- ment of royalties, licenses, and similar fees were relaxed. Foreign residents in Greece were permitted to remit salaries abroad, after the deduction of living expenses and taxes. December 13. The amount of drachma banknotes that might be imported by or exported from Greece was increased from Dr 750 to Dr 1,500. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The unit of currency is the East Caribbean Dollar l issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. A central rate has been established of EC$2.70 = US$1. The Currency Authority quotes daily dealing rates for Canadian dollars and pounds sterling. There is no central bank. On December 31, 1977, the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1 and those for sterling were EC$5.0921 and EC$5.2015, respectively, per £ stg. 1. A tax of 2.5 per cent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs.2 Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with Rhodesia or South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign cu r rency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. These accounts are m a in- tained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, w i th transfers f rom other External Accounts, with bank inter- est (payable on External Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua, Domi- nica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 2 With effect from February 17, 1978, the rate of tax was increased to 5 per cent. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 180 payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license f rom all other countries. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran ts) to the M in is try of Finance, Trade, and Industry; however, the Ministry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports originating in CARICOM countries. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Imports not exempt f rom customs du ty are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business t r av e l ), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and l ife insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry, provided that no unauthorized t rans fer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any desti- nation may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 and East Carib- bean currency notes w i thout limit. Nonresident travelers may freely export any foreign currency previously brought in, as well as any amount in East Caribbean currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the date of shipment, but the collection of export pro- ceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds f rom invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Grenada may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Grenada and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Minister of Finance, Trade, and Indus try will also consider transfer applications f rom foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceed- ing to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such invest- ment is permitted, provided that any liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds GRENADA from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes during 1977 April 7. A tax of 2.5 per cent was imposed on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. October 17. The exchange allowance for tourism was raised from EC$ 1,500'to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year and that for business travel f rom EC$4,000 to EC$7,000 a person a calendar year. The allowance for cash gifts was raised from EC$250 to EC$500 a person a calendar year. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal, corresponding to Q 1.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies l mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On Janua ry 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control but all inward and out- ward transfers are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Guatemala. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala and those of the private sector are carried out through the med ium of authorized banks appointed by the Monetary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua are normally made in the currencies of the countries concerned through the Central American Clearing House. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, lead, poultry, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and a few other goods. Imports from all sources of coffee beans, coffee plants, and tallow are prohibited. Imports f rom Hon- duras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Pay- ments for permitted imports may be made freely and in any currency. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Guatemala grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in or take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes and other means of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a number of items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold and silver in any form (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license). However, travelers may take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in foreign countries. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate for the currency of Guinea has been established. The unit of currency is the Syli, defined as a monetary un it containing 0.036 gram of fine gold. Since June 1975 exchange rates have been determined on the basis of the relationship GS 24.6853 = SDR1. On December 31, 1977, the rate for the U.S. dollar was GS 20.476 per US$1. The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea also quotes rates for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank which is under the direct supervision of the Presi- dency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Bank's Exchange Control Office. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPORTEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.2 Settlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments AH imports, other than those under the Five-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by IMPORTEX within the framework of the annual import program. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports 1 Including Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with People's Republic of China and U.S.S.R. The agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Lebanon, Morocco, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Viet Nam are regarded as inoperative. and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports are effected outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea—e.g., imports made by two "mixed economy companies" (the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Five-Year Plan. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, ex- cept when imported by the "mixed economy companies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the coun- try to which the payment is to be made, unless financed from retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 400 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 6,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authori- zation is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. For officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholar- ship, i.e., GS 2,250 a month. Students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign ex- change allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expa- triate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all exports except those of the "mixed economy companies." 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA All exports require individual licenses in order ( 1) to assure the implementation of the export program (par- ticularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and a lum ina ex- por ted); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agen- cies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild an ima ls (dead or a l ive ), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic inter- est, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the pro- ceeds immediately af ter they are collected. Other than those effected by the "mixed economy companies," most exports are made by three state ex- porting enterprises, PROMINEX, PROSECO, and FRUTEX, which are subsidiaries of a holding company, SECOMEX. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privi- leges related to the quan t i ty of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fru i ts exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed econ- omy companies are allowed to retain their export pro- ceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements and to service their external debt. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered within 24 hours af ter entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign ex- change declared upon entry, af ter deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and m in ing sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 15 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations w i th in the terms of the Investment Law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic pur- poses. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1977 January 1. Settlements with Bulgaria were placed on a convertible currency basis. June 1. Settlements with Hungary were placed on a convertible currency basis. July 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia were placed on a convertible currency basis. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Guinea-Bissau, the Guinean Peso. The day-to-day rates for foreign currencies are fixed on the basis of rates quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the previous day. The Guinean peso is not at par with the Portuguese escudo. The rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were GP 33.648 buying and GP 34.332 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department (Diregao Geral de Operates com o Estrangeiro) of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and exchange holdings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings shall be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria and Cape Verde. imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses, gener- ally valid for 180 days, are granted by a joint commis- sion of representatives of the Commissariat of Com- merce and Handicrafts and of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank within 15 days. Only importers registered with the Commissariat of Com- merce and Handicrafts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and value (c.i.f. and f.o.b.) of the product imported. A separate license is required for each product imported. Global import requirements for each year are deter- mined by the Commissariat of Commerce and Handi- crafts. Licenses are granted on the basis of these re- quirements so as to ensure that each importer receives an allocation roughly in accordance with his past import share. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Im- port licenses are normally provided within 8-15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foods tuffs such as rice and sugar are state monopolies. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. For- eign exchange allocations for many payments for invisi- 1 Guinea-Bissau became a member of the International Monetary Fund on March 24, 1977. bles, including those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension pay- ments are authorized in accordance with criteria fixed in the transitory rules. Although no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. Moreover, purchases of Cape Verde escudos for purposes of tourism in that country are permitted up to the equivalent of GP 10,000 a person. Airline companies may transfer in foreign exchange the difference between their payments and receipts in Guinean pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to GP 15,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted up to GP 6,000 in the first month and GP 2,000 in each of the following months (GP 3,500 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to GP 20,000. Remittances to close rela- tives (parents and children) living abroad are permitted up to GP 2,500 a month. Foreign travelers may take out up to the amount of foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered with the Commissariat of Commerce and Handicrafts may obtain export licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Exports of ground- nuts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported only by the Government include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, soft drinks, groundnut oil, and parquet flooring. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 per cent. Most exports are also subject to export taxes, which range from 3 per cent for firewood to 15 per cent for crocodile hides, with most products in the 9-10 per cent range. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinean pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinean pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigra- tion are authorized by the "transitory norms" within a 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU monthly limit of GP 50,000 and up to 20 per cent of total taxable income earned during no more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are sus- pended. Exports and imports of securities, means of payments, or any credit instruments of title are pro- hibited, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the State Commissar for Finance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the State Commissar for Finance. Changes during 1977 January 1. A joint commission of the Commissariat of Commerce and Handicrafts and the central bank was charged with responsibility for granting import licenses. February 28. Guinea-Bissau did not follow the de- valuation of the Portuguese escudo which was depreci- ated by 15 per cent against the U.S. dollar. The peso therefore was appreciated by 14 per cent on average in relation to the escudo. March 9. Importation of specified essential commodi- ties such as rice, sugar, wheat flour, soap, cement, and wine was made a state monopoly (Decree No. 8/77). 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar. A central rate of G$2.55 = US$1 has been established, and Guyana avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Guyana normally deals only in Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dol- lars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1977, its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612, respectively, per US$1 and those for sterling were G$4.8547 and G$4.8842, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. In its dealings in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of 0.0625 per cent on inward transfers and 0.4375 per cent on outward trans- fers; it charges a commission of 0.125 per cent, buying and selling, in dealings in Barbados dollars, East Carib- bean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. The commercial banks' charges for Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars are 0.1875 per cent buying and 0.625 per cent selling. Their buy ing and selling rates for Barbados dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars are 0.25 per cent either side of parity. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving import pay- ments of up to G$ 1,500 and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments up to speci- fied amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain pay- ments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing generally is the responsi- bility of the Ministry of Trade but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts f rom countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency1 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any country outside Guyana except Rhodesia* They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers f rom other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- residents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, in- cluding the purchase of approved securities. In prac- tice, no funds have been directed into Blocked Accounts in recent years and funds which have not been placed at the free disposal of nonresidents have remained in resident accounts subject to the same rules as apply to the latter. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom the Republic of China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain com- modities are prohibited from all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibition is not applicable, while others are subject to quotas, if they qualify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports from countries of the Caribbean Common Market— CAR icoM) .2 All permissible imports (except parcel post items, and trade samples up to a specified va lue ), irre- spective of origin, are subject to individual licensing. The gran t ing of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities originating in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are generally granted freely, but such imports must be effected through the External Trade Bureau. The External Trade Bureau has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guy an a, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA from all sources (including certain dairy products). Certain other goods (primarily paper products, such as books and newsprint) may be imported only through the Guyana National Trading Corporation, while pharma- ceuticals, other drugs, and surgical instruments may be imported only through the Guyana Pharmaceutical Cor- poration. Certain foodstuffs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that fall under the agricultural marketing protocol of the CARIFTA/CARICOM Agreement. Payments for authorized imports are generally per- mitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence, subject to the availability of foreign exchange. There has been some accumulation of commercial arrears. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all transactions; importers who do not receive the necessary foreign exchange are being asked to resubmit their applications on a weekly basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require ap- proval, which, except for tourist travel and depreciation allowances, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is involved but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel has been suspended. Travel allowances to residents may only be granted on an indi- vidual basis. Foreign-based companies (other than those based in CARICOM countries) and their subsidiaries are prohibited from transferring depreciation allowances. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld), for educa- tion at universities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each s tuden t), and for family maintenance (G$4,800 for each f am i ly ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$15; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allow- ance. Nonresident travelers may within one month of their last entry freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to the Republic of China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board and sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Depart- ment to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see foot- note 1), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. 188 Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 1) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes up to a value of G$15 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Foreign investors must obtain from the Bank of Guyana "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the bal- ance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it assures that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in fu ll in the currency of the original investment. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies (other than those based in the CARICOM area) and their sub- sidiaries are prohibited from exporting depreciation allowances and from borrowing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other curren- cies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a fam i ly unit; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a family unit at the time of emigration and G$ 17,300 in each following calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the financing of spe- cific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any other form, at home or abroad. Ne i ther the Bank of Guyana nor any other official ins t i tu t ion purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold and industrial users, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Changes during 1977 January 4. Import licensing was suspended until January 15, 1977 pending the completion of the new ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licensing system. The only applications considered dur- ing this period were for the importation of emergency items. Importers were also requested to resubmit all applications for import licenses which had been sub- mitted on or before December 31, 1976. January 15. Import licenses were issued on the basis of the foreign exchange budget, with fixed amoun ts being allocated to individual importers. The original estimate for the availability of foreign exchange dur ing 1977 on the basis of which licenses were issued was G$825 million, compared with actual importation of goods and services of G$ 1,088 million dur ing 1976. This estimate was later reduced to C$800 million. Allocations of foreign exchange valid for importation up to July 1, 1977 amounted to one third of the estimated foreign exchange available for the whole year. The Government also notified the CARICOM Council of Ministers that it intended to invoke Article 28 of the CARICOM Treaty for six months. The Government banned temporarily the importation of cars, commercial vehicles, certain equipment, and certain prepared food items from all sources. Other items came under quota GUYANA even when imported from CARICOM countries, while their importation from all other sources was prohibited. It was announced that import licenses for footwear and textiles above a predetermined c.i.f. value would not be granted. April 2. The limit placed on the banks for the approval of import payments was lowered from G$ 10,000 to G$ 1,500. June 16. The CARICOM Multilateral Clearing Facility came into effect. June 20. The limit on the value of exports, below which it was not necessary to complete exchange con- trol forms, was reduced from G$2,000 to G$200. August 1. Importation of Pharmaceuticals, surgical instruments, and related items previously channeled through the External Trade Bureau was transferred to the Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation. September 16. The airport departure tax was raised f r om G $3 to G$10. September 25. The tax on airline tickets was increased from 10 to 20 per cent. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.147332 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is G 5.00 = US$1, and this rate is applicable to all trans- actions. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Besides the gourde, the U.S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law, and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain foodstuffs, certain footwear, paints, and passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000 c.i.f.; licenses are granted freely. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and Japan require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. The domes- tic marketing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Importers opening letters of credit at the National Bank are required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain imports are subject to sur- charges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value, in addi- tion to the applicable import duty; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers pay an "economic liberation tax" on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization f rom the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Essential Oils. Gold coins, gold and silver bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds f rom invisibles. A regulation which is not enforced prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior government approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a mini- mum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the form of coins, min- eral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authorization by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry and the M in is try of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commer- cial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.368331 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, corresponding to L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L2.00 buying, and L2 .02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guate- malan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates m inus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beg inn ing on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Pay- ments to the other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Central American Clearing House. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain essential imports (List 1) require prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms. Certain nonessential imports (List 2) also are subject to Central Bank approval; the use of external credit for these goods is prohibited. Imports of goods not appearing on either list do not require Central Bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. The import of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the National Devel- opment Bank. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants du ty exonera- tions on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Some goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 per cent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 per cent of the f .o.b. value. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold and sugar do not require licenses but must be registered. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute and of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the National Development Bank, and lumber exports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Develop- ment Corporation (COHDEFOR). The proceeds of exports must be repatriated to Honduras; those wishing to nego- tiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. The import and export of domestic and foreign banknotes by travelers are per- mitted freely. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. However, the authorization of the Minister of Finance is required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to col- lect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required for the Government to contract any foreign indebted- ness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external indebtedness by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refin- ing. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Changes during 1977 February L A port charge of L2.00 per ton of imported goods was levied. In addition, a docking charge of L 1.50 per foot was levied for each 12 hours that a vessel was berthed. March 31. All new foreign borrowing by the bank- 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS ing system with a ma tur i ty of under two years was suspended. Short-term foreign borrowing guaranteed by local banks was approved for export financing only and was limited to the level outstanding 12 months earlier. Bank guarantees on medium-term and long- term loans were restricted to loans for financing imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and imports related to public works. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar. The central rate is HK$5.0850 per US$1. Since November 25, 1974, however, the authori- ties have not maintained the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar within the previous official limits of HK$4.9706 and HK$5.1994 per US$1. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the closing buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the interbank foreign exchange market were HK$4.6160 and HK$4.6180, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Trade, Indus t ry, and Customs. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable commodities and a few other items that are controlled for health and security reasons, imports are free of license. However, all goods originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia require an import license. Virtually all imports must be declared to the Department of Trade, Industry, and Customs within 14 days of importation. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by that Department. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for strategic goods, foodstuffs, electrical products, and some other items for which control is imposed to enable Hong Kong to f u l f i ll certain in terna t ional obligations. Textiles are also subject to licensing, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. All exports must be declared to the Department of Trade, Indus try, and Customs, which is also the export licensing au thor i ty. Export proceeds may be collected at any t ime and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm ( inc lud ing finished jewe lry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Resi- dents may hold gold in any fo rm in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan terr i tory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00830471 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona. A central rate has been established of 0.00792269 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona. No exchange transactions take place at the par va lue or the central rate, and no announced marg ins have been observed since June 15, 1973. The off ic ial rates on December 31, 1977 were IKr 212.80 buying, and IKr213 .40 selling, per US$1. Rates for other curren- cies are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional markets. The authorized banks are per- mitted to carry out exchange transactions among them- selves and to engage in arbitrage in fore ign marke ts. Administration of Control The M in is try of Commerce, a f ter consu l t ing the Cen- tral Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters concern- ing import and export licensing and on paymen ts for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regu- lation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, inc lud ing capital controls; it is also responsible for ensu r ing that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. Two commercial banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consultation w i th the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area and with Brazil are made in U.S. dollars; with other countries former ly in the Ster- ling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and w i th certain other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonres ident krona accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used free ly for payments to residents and may w i thout a license be converted in to the currency of the c o u n t ry of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, paymen ts for in te rna t ional trans- 194 actions generally being made in U.S. dollar, sterling, or other conver t ib le currencies.1 Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement w i th an authorized bank. The most impor tant of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, w i th approved pay- ments f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported freely w i thout an import license f rom any coun try; some 90 per cent of total imports are liberal- ized. Some 35 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Some of these commodities are adm i t ted, subject to individual license, under global quotas. The remaining goods on the restricted list are adm i t ted on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal i tems involved are petroleum products; the only other indu s t r ial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. Ce r ta in imports, inc lud ing fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, are admitted only under state t rad ing arrangements. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board. None of these commodities, how- ever, is subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. For imports f rom all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 0.5 per cent (m in imum IKr 25) is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, how- ever, this fee is 0.1 per cent.2 The commercial banks require certain advance deposits in connection with certain import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. However, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. 1 Residents who hold foreign currency which they are not required to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts with Ice- landic banks. Such accounts, denom ina ted in Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars may be cred i ted with author- ized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized paymen ts in fore ign currencies. 2 With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, the license fee for imports, except for petroleum products, was raised to 1 per cent, and the m in imum was increased to IKr 100. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are mainly building materials and nonessential goods (including motor vehi- cles for personal use). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by an authorized bank and the Ministry of Commerce. Approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy and the import of construction materials. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authorization. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles are subject to an import surcharge of 50 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 25 per cent for buses and heavy trucks, and ambulances and certain other utility vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a temporary excise tax of 18 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to inter- national organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 0.5 per cent on payments for invisibles (except for the provision of tourist exchange.) 3 The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 75,000 (about US$350) a person for one trip a year (IKr 37,500 for children); if a second trip is made in the same calendar year, an additional 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. An exchange license fee of 1 per cent is levied on exchange provided for tourist travel.4 Applications for exchange for ma jor repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usually is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out IKr 14,000 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 1,000. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. 3 With effect from January 1, 1978, the license fee was raised to 1 per cent. *With effect from January 1, 1978, the license fee was raised to 1.75 per cent. ICELAND Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be sur- rendered without undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of neces- sities. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned f rom premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expen- ditures in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in IKr 14,000 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 1,000. There are no limita- tions on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to individual approval. The participation by non- residents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be regis- tered, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require Central Bank approval. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. How- ever, citizens returning to Iceland after residing abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1977 January 1. A reduction in tariffs took effect accord- ing to the terms of Iceland's agreements with the EEC and theEFTA. January 5. Import restrictions on color television sets were abolished. January 20. The first of numerous changes during the year in the official exchange rate took place. The buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were changed from IKr 189.50 and IKr 189.90 per US$1 to IKr 189.80 and IKr 190.20, respectively, per US$1. By December 31, 1977, the official rates had moved to IKr 212.80 buying, and 213.40 selling, per US$1. January 20. The margin between the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dol- lar was widened from IKr 0.40 to IKr 0.50. April 14. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from IKr 50,000 to IKr 75,000 a person for one trip a year. June 10. The limit on the amount of Icelandic bank- notes and coins residents and nonresident travelers may take out or bring into Iceland was increased from IKr 1,500 to IKr 14,000. The highest denomination which may be carried was raised from IKr 100 to IKr 1,000. July 1. Tariffs on most Icelandic exports to the EEC were abolished in accordance with the 1972 trade agree- ment between Iceland and the EEC. Fresh fish remained subject to a small tariff (3.7 per cent for cod) and ta r i f fs on aluminum will be abolished by 1980. October 26. The margin between the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar was widened from IKr 0.50 to IKr 0.60. December 28. Residents holding foreign currency legally were permitted to open foreign accounts with Icelandic banks. The accounts might be denominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee. Since September 25, 1975 the rupee has been pegged to a weighted basket of currencies, w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent on either side. The rates of exchange for transac t ions in s ter l ing are prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India. At the end of December 1977, the Reserve Bank's m idd le rate for sterling was Rs 15.75, and its buying and selling rates for its opera- tions in sterling w i th authorized dealers were Rs 15.70 and Rs 15.80, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, deutsche ma rk, Japanese yen, and As ian mone- tary un i ts, spot and fo rwa rd, and to sell spot pounds sterling and As ian mone tary un i ts. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover the ir re- quirements of fore ign currencies in the London ma rket and to cover their permitted t ransac t ions in certain listed currencies ( the "permitted currencies") l against rupees or any one of these currencies, either spot or fo rwa rd for periods not exceeding 6 mon ths, w i th authorized banks in any coun try outside the B i la te ral Account group.2 On December 31, 1977, ma rket rates for tele- graphic t rans fe rs on New York were US$12.26 b u y i ng (c lean) and US$12.02 selling, per Rs 100, and the Re- serve Bank's rates were US$12.2225 b u y i ng spot, and US$12.2375, US$12.2550, US$12.2675, US$12.2800, US$12.2925, and US$12.3050, buy ing fo rwa rd ( f or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' de l ivery, re spec t ive ly ), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides fo rwa rd cover to au thor- ized dealers by purchases of s ter l ing for de l ivery on any day du r ing the first mon th, second mon th, etc., up to 9 months' delivery in i t i a l ly (and extendable up to 12 mon th s ), and of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars for delivery on any day du r ing the first mon th, second mon th, and so on up to the sixth mon th. In add i t ion, the Bank offers forward cover in these four currencies in respect of exports of specified capital and producer goods, for periods of 18 months to 10 years from the date of conclusion of the export con trac t. The Bank also purchases Asian mone ta ry u n i ts f rom au thor- ized dealers, for 3, 6, and 9 mon th s' de l ive ry (ex tend- able up to 12 mon ths in a l l ). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs and U.S. dollars. a Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, H u n g a r y, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. With effect f rom Janu- ary 1, 1978 the bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was term ina ted and settlements w i th that coun t ry were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. There is also a special paymen ts a r rangement with A fghan i s tan for settlement of trade w i th India in specified com- modities on a balanced basis w i th in specific ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Governmen t, in consultation with the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized deal- ers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or w i thout equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Inves tment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of com- mercial, indus tr ia l, and t rad ing activities in India of companies w i th more than 40 per cent nonresident interest or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carry ing out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: Bilateral Account countries 2 and External Account countries (all other coun tr ies). Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropr ia te clear- ing account. Payments to 14 External Account coun- tries 3 may be made in rupees to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group or in the cur- rency of any country or territory in this subgroup. Pay- ments to all other External Account countries may be made in (1) the currency of the country concerned; (2) the currency of any country of the subgroup; 3 or ( 3) rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the External Account group.4 Receipts f rom 14 External Account countries (see footnote 3) may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank in any External Account country, or in the currency of any ter- ritory in this subgroup. Receipts from all other External Account countries may be obtained in ( 1) the currency of the country concerned; (2) the currency of any ter- ritory in the subgroup; or ( 3) rupees f rom the account 3 The countries listed are Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Canada, Denmark and Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, No rway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, United Kingdom, and Un i ted States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. * All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect f rom November 3, 1962. All paymen ts due to the People's Republic of China are requ ired to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. Payments for trans- actions relating to trade with Pakistan that is conducted on a govern- ment-to-government basis or through government-controlled t rade cor- porations of the two countries or by the pr iva te sector are allowed under special bank ing arrangements. Besides these special a r range- ments, authorized dealers may effect certain types of personal and trade remittances to Pakistan in accordance with regu la t ions applicable to such remittances; remittances for all other purposes r e q u i re the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA of a bank in any External Account country. Notwith- standing the foregoing, special rules may be applicable in respect of Afghanistan, and exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the gov- erments of certain foreign countries. In add i t ion, pay- ments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Nepal (i.e., Bangla- desh, Burma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian mone tary un i ts through the Asian Clearing Union. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians (with the exception of cer- tain accounts held by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are or have been nonres iden ts) and of Bhu ta- nese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treat- ment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., Bilateral Accounts and External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, w i th authorized transfers f rom the nonresident accounts of private firms ( inc lud ing bank s) or persons, w i th proceeds f rom sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of the currencies of External Account countries. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including b ank s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of External Account countries. Transfers may be made f rom External Accounts to other External Accounts. All other entries on Bilateral and External Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of pay- ments to residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, w i thout prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amoun ts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate for- eign currency, or transfers f rom appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); proceeds f rom checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of ma tu r i ty or 5 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain the ir fore ign exchange requ iremen ts from the Nepal Ras tra Bank. 198 death claims and surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner, and that actuarial reserves are held in India; re funds permitted by the income tax authorities; pen- sions due from the Central Government or any State Government; withdrawals or loans f rom, and ma tur i ty proceeds of, the Public Provident Fund, where the account holder is an Indian national or a person of Indian origin; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits dur ing a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities as well as proceeds f rom the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Un it Trust of India may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a jo int account, any of the account holders) is a for- eign national, authorized dealers may freely credit the sale and ma tur i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance f rom abroad, and in the case of sales proceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Proceeds f rom the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares had been sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, ma in ta ined by persons of Ind ian nationality or origin who are resident abroad, with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely debited for local payments. Other ord inary pri- vate nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on l ife insurance policies of the account holder or his de- pendents; all taxes due from the account holder in India; contributions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government- sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; investments in Ind ian Government securities and in un i ts issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resi- dent in India. In cases where the accounts have balances in excess of Rs 50,000, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week du r ing their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annua l ly may be debited for any purpose dur ing an account holder's stay in India; nonresident accounts, when held by a person of Indian nationality or origin, may also be debited freely for investment in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not norma l ly permitted f rom nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts origi- nally credited to such accounts could have been trans- ferred abroad. The former blocked accounts of Indian emigrants have been redesignated ordinary nonresident accounts. Assets in India of emigrants that are in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are required to be credited to such accounts. Balances in nonresident accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in Indian rupee securities quoted on stock exchanges in India (other than bearer securities) or, if the holder is of Indian nationality or origin, in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968; with the approval of the Reserve Bank, they may also be invested in shares of Ind ian companies quoted on stock exchanges in India. The income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of emigration. For Ind ian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to Janua ry 1, 1963, net income f rom investments financed f rom their ac- counts is allowed to be remitted in fu l l. For those granted such facilities between Janua ry 1963 and April 1968, remittances of income f rom assets left behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any kind is remittable to persons who obtained em igra t ion facilities after April 30, 1968. Special regulations cover funds lodged in Na t ional Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts represent- ing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds f rom sales of certifi- cates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, be freely w i thdrawn for making any payments in India and, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, may be invested domestically. Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nation- ality or origin resident outside India. They may be credited with new funds remitted through bank ing chan- nels f rom the coun t ry of residence of the account holder, or from any External Account country. They may also be credited, af ter approval by the Reserve Bank, with funds f rom any other nonresident account of the holder, provided that such funds are eligible for remittance. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfer abroad. Interest on deposits in such ac- counts is exempt f rom income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt f rom wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in External Account countries. These accounts may be credited with savings rem i t ted through no rmal bank ing channels, and w i th interest on the balances, which is INDIA free of income tax and wealth tax. Balances may be held only as term deposits but may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without ref- erence to the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Specified items may be freely imported under an open general license or under the savings clause of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955. Practically all other imports require individual licenses. Imports of specified raw materials and components required by all industries are licensed liberally. Licenses for raw materials and com- ponents are issued on a continuing basis generally by way of importers claiming replenishment of goods actu- ally consumed dur ing a period of not more than 12 months. Supplementary licenses are also granted to all industries to meet any additional requirements of raw materials and components. In some instances licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials and com- ponents are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits f rom par- ticular countries or against rupees in bilateral clearing accounts. However, with respect to the permitted origin of imports, a greater preference is accorded to actual users with specified m in imum export performance. Ind i- v idual licenses may be issued ( 1) on a case-by-case basis, (2) on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance w i th their imports in a base period, (3) to actual users on the basis of their require- ments, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. There are three types of individual license, General Currency Area Licenses, Specific Licenses (used for capital goods and other supplies against tied a id) and Single Country Licenses (used for certain imports f rom countries with which bilateral trade or payments agree- ments are in fo r c e ). Imports from Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), Rho- desia, South Africa, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China are prohibited. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- s tu f fs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements. The import program for the period ending March 31, 1978 contains a list of items, the import of which is not normally allowed, and a list of items, the import of which is allowed on a restricted basis, i.e., only a part of the requirement is allowed to be imported, depending on domestic availability. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to fu l f i ll government contracts and for irrigation projects. An import replenishment scheme enables registered ex- porters to obtain under license (REP licenses), specified raw materials and other items needed for their export production; these commodities include certain items the import of which otherwise is banned. REP licenses, when held in excess of an exporter's own requirements 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA may be transferred to other exporters at a premium. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Im- port licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted un t il Indian producers have been given an opportunity by public advertisement to supply them; licenses are issued only if offers by domestic producers are disproportion- ately expensive or unacceptable for other reasons, or when no offers are received within 45 days.6 Some capital goods are allowed on the Open General List. In some cases, free imports of machinery are permitted up to a limit, irrespective of indigenous availability. Export- oriented industries which exported 20 per cent or more of their production in the past three years and undertook to export 20 per cent or more of their expanded produc- tion in the next five years are allowed to import capital goods up to a limit of Rs 10 million a year without indigenous scrutiny. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presen- tation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., im- ports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Re- serve Bank grants special authorization for advance pay- ment for a part of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, corkwood, raw cotton, raw jute, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and many cate- gories of steel is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, Sail Interna- tional Ltd., State Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Corpo- ration of India (CPC), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. In addition, imports of synthetic rubber, sulfur products, vitamins, and antibiotics are normally arranged by the STC and CPC. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre ( IRMAC ). In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. 6 For certain types of steel castings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. 200 Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign cur- rency to foreign nationals temporarily resident in India may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian com- panies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain con- ditions are met. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to bene- ficiaries permanently resident outside India (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968, are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emi- grants granted lump sum exchange facilities after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized deal- ers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and Rhodesia, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a maximum of Rs 2,500 a month (Rs 1,500 a month for nationals of Bangladesh). Re- quests for the remittance of larger amounts are consid- ered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or educa- tion abroad are considered on an individual basis and require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P form" formalities to all destinations provided they have not visited any place outside India during the period of two years immedi- ately preceding the date of the journey. They are en- titled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equiva- lent on a round trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. Substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mauritius under the Mauritius Travel Scheme and to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Seychelles, except that the allowance is limited to US$100 and the facility is available once in three years as hitherto. Any visits to other countries under the For- eign Travel Scheme are to be ignored when determining the traveler's eligibility to visit Maur i t ius and Seychelles under the two-year rule. There are no restrictions on travel to Bangladesh and Nepal, and passages may be booked freely for air travel f rom Madras, Tiruchirapalli, or Trivandrum to Colombo, Sri Lanka, and from Tri- vandrum to Hulule, Maldives. The schemes mentioned do not preclude access to other travel facilities ( for pur- poses such as business travel or attendance at confer- ences or seminars, e tc .). Foreign exchange for tourist travel, however, is not normally granted except under the two schemes mentioned above. Travel agents and airlines and steamship companies may book passage for persons holding eligibility certificates issued by desig- nated branches of certain public sector nationalized banks under the Reserve Bank order of November 18, 1977 7 Travel abroad to attend conferences is unre- stricted provided expenses are covered by the host insti- tution. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and f rom India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Pakistan or Sri Lanka may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coins. Residents traveling to Bangladesh for business or private purposes may take with them Indian notes and coins up to Rs 20 a person and foreign notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 60 a person; exchange bureaus at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to this value to all passengers, whether Indian or foreign, except for deck passengers or travelers proceeding to Bangladesh, Bhu tan, Nepal, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, foreign nationals who are transit passengers or passengers holding open-dated tickets (in- cluding return tickets) issued outside India. Travelers 7 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, how- ever, for the following: deck passengers to or f rom Bu rma, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Gulf ports, or East A f r ica; UN staff members and their families whose tickets are purchased by or on instruction from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official du ty, and families of such staff posted on du ty abroad on a long-term basis; foreign diplomatic personnel stationed in India; families of persons gainfully employed abroad proceeding to join the head of the family or persons gainfully employed abroad re tu rn ing to their country of employment after a visit to India, pro- vided the fares are paid abroad; employees of Indian insurance com- panies and banks posted on du ty abroad and their families; persons employed by foreign governments, provided the fares are paid abroad; travel between India and Pakistan by persons holding restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or Indian or Pakistani passports; air travel between Madras/Tiruchirapalli/ Trivandrum and Colombo, Sri Lanka; air travel between Tr ivandrum and Hulule, Maldives; and travel between India and Nepal and between India and Bangladesh; and where the traveler holds an eligibility certifi- cate for travel abroad issued by the designated branches of certain public sector banks under the Reserve Bank's order of November 18, 1977. INDIA to Pakistan and Sri Lanka and deck passengers to Purma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, or East Africa may take foreign currency notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person but their combined holding of Indian and foreign currency may not exceed Rs 30 a person. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. A foreign travel tax, at a uniform rate of 12.5 per cent on first class and economy class fares, is payable where the fa re for an international journey is paid in Indian currency; tickets paid for in foreign exchange are exempt f rom the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers, a few may be exported through estab- lished shippers, and a few commodities are subject to export quotas.8 Exports to Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, South Africa, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghan is tan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some exports, including tea, coffee, groundnuts, car- damom, chromium ore, and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some others, including mica, tobacco, and handwoven woolen carpets, are subject to m in imum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufactures such as engineering goods, receive cash compensatory support in lieu of nonrefundable taxes and levies. An import replenishment scheme provides prefer- ential import licensing facilities for producers of manu- factured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of motor scooters, 8 The export of certain commodities including sugar, raw ju te, silver, and several categories of steel is reserved for the state trading enterprises. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. All bills rendered by hotels to foreign tourists and to nonresident Ind ian nationals, other than bills rendered to nationals of Bilateral Account countries, Bhu tan, and Nepal, and foreign nationals and nonresident Ind ians specifically exempted from compliance with this rule by the Govern- ment, must be collected by the hotels in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars (or travelers checks expressed in those currenc ies), or in any other convertible currency. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers f rom Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers f rom Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evi- dence that they previously had exported this amount f rom Ind ia. Travelers from Burma, other than deck passengers, may br ing in Indian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adu lt and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers f rom Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into Ind ia without l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and travelers checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign cur- rency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital Inward capital transfers are, in general, unrestricted, but their subsequent u t i l iza t ion in Ind ia is subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once ad- mitted, are eligible for the same trea tment that Ind ian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely f rom their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank or in the interbank mar- ket to f inance their normal business operations in Ind ia; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior ap- proval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank Foreign borrowing by nonbank Ind ian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve bank permission is required for in i t ia t ing, expanding, or con t inu ing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or indus tr ial activity in Ind ia, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies 202 with over 40 per cent nonresident interest.9 The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities with a nonresident equity of more than 40 per cent and up to 74 per cent, depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export-oriented production, or in manu fac tu r ing activi- ties that require sophisticated technology. Foreign com- panies can retain a 51 per cent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, applica- tion of sophisticated technology, and export production account for no less than 60 per cent of their annual turnover, and a m in imum of 10 per cent of such turn- over is exported within a period not exceeding two years f rom the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisti- cated technology, and export production account for no less than 75 per cent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain a 74 per cent nonresident owner- ship. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of annu al turnover, irrespective of core production or tech- nology involved, will also be allowed to operate with 51 per cent nonresident equity, and those which are able to guarantee a higher percentage of exports on a sus- ta ined basis would be eligible to operate with a higher percentage of nonresident equity. Companies which ex- port 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predomi- nan t ly in trad ing activities or that do not meet the other criteria listed above will be required to reduce their for- eign shareholding to 40 per cent within a specified period or change their activities to meet the above criteria or w ind up their operation in India. In exceptional cases, companies that do not meet these criteria but have developed skills, expertise, or facilities, or use technolo- gies not indigenously available, may be permitted a more than 40 per cent foreign participation, provided that this does not exceed 74 per cent. Branches of foreign com- panies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Ind ian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Ind ians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent, and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding propor- tions are 33!/3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies en- gaged predominantly in internal trad ing and commer- 9 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in External Account countries may invest freely in any public or pr iva te limited company and in any partnership or proprietorship concern, irrespective of the na tu re of its activities, provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal bank ing channels or are drawn f rom their Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the prof i ts and dividends arising therefrom will not be asked fo r. Non- resident Indians and persons of Indian origin residing abroad can also invest in cer ta in specified indus tr ies up to 74 per cent of their new equity capital, and can freely repa tr ia te such investment and income therefrom a f ter deduction of applicable Indian taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Ind ian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property w i th in India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, f rom engaging in any transaction which in- creases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, f rom ho ld ing, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable prop- erty outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is invo lved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a busi- ness in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Ind ian law, or an Indian company with over 40 per cent foreign participa- tion. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities to any place outside India and transferr ing Ind ian securities to non- residents. Residents are prohibited —except with Central Government or Reserve Bank permission —from guar- anteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with Central Government permission, from associating with or par t ic ipa t ing in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects a f ter J anu a ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, inc lud ing capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repa- triated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effec t ing a sale which involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not exceeding fou r. The proceeds f rom liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not norma l ly granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to the equivalent of Rs 100,000 in one l ump sum at the time of emigration; the rema inder of the emigrant's assets and income are kept in a nonresident account and no fu r ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are temporar i ly resident in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Rhodes ia) are per- mitted at the time of their retirement to t rans fer to their INDIA own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each family at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 50,000, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. Bangladesh nationals temporarily resident in India are permitted to transfer their current assets in fu ll and the proceeds f rom the sale of their capital assets up to a limit of Rs 50,000 for each fam i ly at the time of their retirement, and the remainder in annual installments of Rs 20,000. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Ind ian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities re- quires approval. Residents, other than foreign nationals not permanently resident in India, who are private per- sons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Indian nationals resident abroad and wishing to re tu rn to India to take up employment or to set up small indus- trial units are upon application exempted, for a period of three years, from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within 30 days of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import, subject to import license, of equipment and capital goods, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances im- mediately, with the right to reacquire them w i th in three years in case they decide to return to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts in India by such persons as on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facili- ties. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising f rom employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange En- titlement Scheme, persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty return- ing to India for permanent settlement on or a f ter November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 25 per cent of the amount they brought in on t rans fer of residence plus the balance held in their Nonresident (Ex te rna l) Ac- counts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available. Those persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange fac i l i ty w i th in a period of ten years f rom the date of re turn of the head of the family. Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manu fac tu re, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA total ban on private possession of pr imary gold. Al- though there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufac ture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any pu r i ty) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of re f in ing and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trad ing in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver and products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry con s t i tu t ing the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the mone tary authorities require special authorization f rom the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to m anu f a c tu re gold jewelry in bond f rom imported gold, for export purposes only. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry pro- duced in India for export and jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the mone tary au thor i- ties. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the Bilateral Account countries and Pakistan is prohibited. Changes during 1977 January 1. It was announced that priority a l lo tment under the inward remittance scheme would not be ex- tended to scooters, other than "Ba jaj Chetak," and pas- senger automobiles. January 7. The Indus tr ial Development Bank of India announced that direct rupee assistance would be made available to certain industries for the import of balancing equipment, drawings, designs, consultancy services, and technical know-how available under the Technical Development Fund set up by the M in i s t ry of Indus try in March 1976. January 12. An export du ty of Rs 5,000 a qu in tal was imposed on cardamom. January 17. Edible oil and oilseeds were added to the list of free imports. Direct imports of these items by the State Trading Corporation would con t inue. February 10. Direct import of acrylic fiber by cer ta in categories of actual users holding special indu s t r ial licenses was permitted. Rayon grade wood pulp and nylon f i lament yarn were included under the STC scheme of direct allotment to actual users. February 24. Export duty on cardamom was reduced f rom Rs 5,000 to Rs 1,000 a qu in ta l. February 25. The issue and t ran s fer of Ind ian Rupee securities and shares to persons resident in Nepal would 204 require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act 1973, as would transfers of such securities and shares standing in the names of persons resident in Nepal to other residents of Nepal. March 9. The l im it of 1,550 tons imposed on silver exports was relaxed. April 9. An export du ty of Rs 5 a kilogram was im- posed on most categories of tea exports and the rebate scheme was eliminated. April 26. The export du ty on coffee was raised f rom Rs 1,300 to Rs 2,200 a quintal. April 27. The Import Policy for April 1977 to March 1978 provided for liberalization of imports, increased incentives to exporters, and considerable simplification of procedures; the ma in provisions were as follows: ( 1) As regards imports, a wide range of commodities, particularly machinery and raw materials, which were not indigenously available, were placed on open general license and free licensing. In all, about 600 groups of commodities were placed under open general license and 27 groups of commodities, including about 200 types of machinery, were put under free licensing. Imports of permissible spare parts, by actual users, intended for the maintenance of imported machinery or imported parts of indigenous machinery, former ly under open general license, were transferred to free licensing. Enlarged sup- plies of indus tr ial raw materials would be made available to actual users under the automatic licensing scheme and by licensing of individual items. These arrange- men ts were liberalized for 1977/78, irrespective of whether the indus try was classified as "select" or "non- select." Au toma t ic licenses would be granted on the basis of actual consumption of imported raw materials, but an enterprise might apply for a supplementary license if the need for imported raw material should be more than could be obtained through the au toma t ic license. Small-scale industries would be allowed a growth fac tor of 20 per cent over actual consumption in the previous year. Also, the mode of financing of imports by small-scale units would be substantially liberalized; such units would be able to obtain licenses up to Rs 50,000 against free foreign exchange, and for amoun ts exceeding Rs 50,000, licenses would be granted against 70 per cent free foreign exchange and 30 per cent U.K. credit. All units exporting 20 per cent or more of their production would be granted licenses en- tirely against free foreign exchange. Small-sector indus- tries in backward areas, and those established by specially privileged categories of entrepreneurs, would be eligible for licenses against free foreign exchange at 100 per cent of the value of the installed machinery, subject to a m in imum of Rs 30,000 and a max imum of Rs 400,000. The system of channeling imports through state t rad ing corporations for direct a l lo tment to actual users was ex- panded to include 97 additional groups of products and commodities. In add i t ion, imports of nonpermissible ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution items would be allowed up to 10 per cent of the licenses granted for raw materials and components, and imports of restricted items would be allowed up to 20 per cent of the value of licenses without any upper monetary limit. Many quotas were raised and certain categories of im- ports, such as equipment for medical and research and development units, could be imported without a license up to an amount of Rs 500,000 per annum. (2) As regards incentives for exporters, the import shopping list associated with an import replenishment license (REP) was abolished and fu tu re imports would be made subject to actual user conditions, i.e., the im- porter would be required to use the imported materials only in his factory for export production. However, in order to safeguard the interests of indigenous industry, a list of banned items and a list of export-linked import items were incorporated in the policy. There would be wider scope for exporters to nominate other manufac- turers for securing REP licenses, but items that were permissible for import by actual users only on a re- stricted basis would also be restricted for REP licenses. Imports of jigs, tools, equipment for packing and tagging, and testing equipment against REP licenses up to a value not exceeding Rs 100,000 in the case of large-scale units and Rs 50,000 for small units would not require indige- nous clearance. Imports of machinery and equipment into free trade zones up to a value of Rs 10,000 in a year were placed on open general license. The m in imum export performance criterion for the granting of an export house certificate was increased to Rs 10 million for selected export products and to Rs 50 million for other goods. The amount of foreign exchange released to each export house would be 2.5 per cent of its total exports in the previous year; an export house would also be allowed to acquire REP licenses from other exporters for a value of up to 25 per cent of exports (f .o .b .) in the previous year. (3) The Government undertook to simplify the pro- cedures for dealing with applications and issuance of licenses. Time limits would be prescribed for disposal of the various types of application. Actual users apply- ing for licenses to import capital goods would be re- quired only to fu rn i sh a declaration that the import of the machinery would not cause them to exceed their licensed authorized capacity. The powers of regional licensing authorities were enhanced; the requirement that importers should produce an income tax verification number was eliminated; the applicant would be required only to furn ish a declaration that he had filed income tax returns and had paid the taxes due. Exporters who were importing under the duty exemption scheme would no longer have to wait until the raw materials and com- ponents had actually been imported; under the new arrangements, exports could be effected as soon as a Duty Exemption Certificate had been received from the Department of Revenue. The tariff code classification was revised with effect f rom April 1, 1977. INDIA May 11. The Government announced that an export duty ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 200 a ton, depending on the oxide content, would be levied on chromite ore and concentrates. May 18. The ban on castor oil exports was lifted. May 19. The export duty on coffee was reduced f rom Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,600 a quintal. May 24. The Reserve Bank directed authorized deal- ers to discontinue the rediscounting of foreign currency usance bills abroad. June 6. Trade relations were resumed between India and the People's Republic of China. June 15. The obligation to surrender to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange held by persons resident in India was extended to all currencies except those of Nepal and Bhutan. June 15. India requested the extension of the GATT waiver regarding the application of the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article II of the General Agreement to the extent necessary to enable it to apply temporary auxiliary customs duty for a fur ther nine months from July 1, 1977. The requested extension of the time limit until March 31, 1978 was approved by the GATT on July 26. June 25. The export duty on coffee was fu r ther re- duced from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,100 a quintal. June 28. The Government announced that tea exports would be limited to 225 million kilograms in the fiscal year 1977/78 in order to contain rising prices on the domestic market. July 1. The final stage of the elimination of the mar- gin of preference formerly afforded to some British goods became effective. July 7. The U.S. Government lifted quota restrictions on imports of handloom products, including certain gar- ments f rom India. July 14. The EEC announced restrictive measures on textile imports from third countries; India was asked to restrict exports of yarn to all nine countries and exports of T-shirts to some member countries. August 16. The Reserve Bank's procedures governing forward purchases of pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, and Japanese yen f rom authorized deal- ers were revised. Under the new system, the Bank would purchase pounds sterling spot and also for for- ward delivery on any day dur ing the first mon th, the second month and so on up to the n in th month. The U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen would also be purchased spot as well as forward for delivery on any day during the first month, the second month, and so on up to the sixth month. September 1. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 was extended to the State of Sikkim. Accordingly, residents of Sikkim (other than foreign nationals who are temporarily resident there) who own foreign ex- change or foreign securities or immovable property out- side India were required to declare to the Reserve Bank 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA particulars of all such holdings before November 1. The holders of foreign currency balances, except for certain exempted categories, were required to surrender such balances to an authorized dealer in foreign exchange before December 1. September 13. The export duty on coffee was raised from Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,300 a quintal. September 29. Blocked accounts of Indian emigrants were redesignated ordinary nonresident accounts. October 17. India and Egypt agreed to terminate the bilateral balanced trade arrangements, under which goods were exchanged in specific quantities. October 17. The export duty on coffee was reduced to Rs 700 a quintal. October 26. The Ministry of Commerce announced a voluntary curb on tea exports; the ceiling was fixed at 225 million kilograms. November 1. Travel rules under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970 were liberalized. The foreign exchange allowance for tourism was increased from US$100 to US$500 and Indian nationals were entitled to go abroad once in two years (instead of once in three years). The requirement that Indian carriers must be used was abolished. November 1. The Reserve Bank introduced a new scheme entitled Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, for persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent settlement. Under the scheme, such persons could apply for release of 25 per cent of the foreign exchange brought in or remitted to India through normal banking channels, and also of the balances held in rupee Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency Nonresident Accounts, for specified purposes for which foreign ex- change was not normally made available. Entitlements under the scheme would remain valid for ten years from the date of return of the head of the fam i ly to India. November 1. India adjusted the exchange rates of the rupee against the pound sterling. The new buying and selling rates were Rs 15.7 = <£ stg. 1 and Rs 15.8 = «£ stg. 1, respectively. November 18. Under Reserve Bank order, the ar- rangements for booking passages for foreign travel to any country, other than Bhutan and Nepal, would be handled by certain designated branches of ten major public sector nationalized banks which were authorized to issue eligibility certificates for foreign travel instead of this being done by the Reserve Bank as hitherto. This order became effective on December 1. December 15. The bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with Hungary was terminated and, with effect from January 1, 1978, all settlements would be placed on a convertible currency basis. December 23. The Ministry of Industry announced that the existing Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) would be strictly enforced. After the dilution of capital, to 40 per cent, or as prescribed, foreign com- panies would be treated on a par with Indian companies. For all approved foreign investments, there would be complete freedom of remittance of profits, royalties, dividends, and repatriation of capital, subject to gener- ally applicable rules and regulations. While majority interest in ownership and effective control should be in Indian hands, exceptions might be made if the under- takings were highly export-oriented and /or required sophisticated technology. In 100 per cent export-oriented cases, the Govern- ment might consider even a fully-owned foreign com- pany. Foreign investment and acquisition of technology necessary for India's industrial development would be allowed only on terms determined by the government to be in the national interest. In areas where foreign technological know-how was not needed, existing col- laboration agreements would not be renewed and foreign companies operating in such fields would have to modify their character and activities in conformity with national priorities within the framework of FERA. For the guidance of entrepreneurs, the Government would issue a revised list of industries where no foreign collaboration, financial or technical, was considered necessary. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. In the Jakarta foreign exchange Bourse, transactions in U.S. dollars have since August 23, 1971 been effected at rates w i th in 1 per cent either side of Rp 415 per US$1; on December 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates were Rp 414 and Rp 416, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the Jakar ta rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. In the Jakarta foreign exchange Bourse three calls for exchange are conducted each week under the manage- ment of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank f inan- cial institutions, and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks no t ify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is ad- ministered by Bank Indonesia and the M in is try of Fi- nance. Exporters' licenses are issued by the Department of Trade offices in provincial capitals. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control sys tem ,l but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in speci- fied currencies. 2 Indonesia has no operative payments agreements.3 1 With the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain auto- mobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 2 Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian r ingg i t, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Indonesia maintains an inoperative bilateral paymen ts agreement with the People's Republic of China. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to effect a withdrawal, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an in i t i al deposit is required for reg is tra t ion. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968, only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have retained their licenses and new foreign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports f rom Angola, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of any secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include built-up sedans and station wagons; com- ponents for the assembly of luxury automobiles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and tele- vision sets in built-up or semiknocked-down condition; built-up air conditioners, refrigerators, and electric sew- ing machines; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roof- ing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium gluta- mate; mattresses; certain types of cotton yarn; and specified types of textiles, au tomob i le tires, batteries, p r in ted ma t ter, office supplies, an im al traps, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. Imports of cloves, fer t i l izers, rice, re f ined sugar, and wheat and wheat f lour are restricted to specified approved impor ters. Impor ts of ce r ta in com- mod i t ies for the "basic na t ional stockpile" are reserved for state en terpr ises; these curren t ly inc lude cement, new sp r in t, cer ta in types of paper, au tomob i le tires, asphalt, cotton weav ing ya rn, sheet i ron, r e in fo r c ing steel, raw ma ter ia ls for ma r i t ime indus t r ies, and pharma- ceutical raw materials. No licenses are required for impor ts. In pr inc ip le, all perm i t ted impo r ts may be paid for e i ther w i th general exchange (Devisa Umum) or aid exchange (Devisa Kredit)', textiles, however, may be paid for w i th general exchange only. For imports financed with aid exchange a compensa t ion payment is gran ted a f ter customs clearance; this payment ranges f rom Rp 20 to Rp 45 per U.S. dollar of the import va lue, depend ing on coun try of origin a n d / or donor coun t ry. Sight bankers' letters of credit are required for all private sector impo r t s4 with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not 4 With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, the opening of usance letters of credit is allowed in specific cases. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA exceeding US$100, and imports specifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade or by the Investment Coordinat- ing Board in the case of goods constituting part of a foreign investment. A rupiah deposit of 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened for imports financed with aid exchange; for imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when they submit applications for letters of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the balance upon receipt of the documents, upon arrival of the goods, or within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for non- government imports financed with aid exchange is left to the discretion of the authorized bank if the latter purchases aid exchange forward f rom Bank Indonesia. If imports fa ll into certain categories which have been identified as "having met domestic demand sufficiently," a 100 per cent import deposit must be lodged at the t ime of opening the letter of credit, and 100 per cent of the import du ty must be paid in advance. Also, a financial guarantee amoun t ing to 100 per cent of the value of the letter of credit is blocked in the importer's account un t il completion of customs procedure (the deposit reverts to the Government in case of "physical or administrative smuggling"). Bank credit may not be used to meet these requirements. Most varieties of textiles, polyester fibers, reinforcing steel, and gunny bags are subject to these provisions. Import duties, which are almost w i thout exception ad valorem, are imposed on "check" prices ( ind ica t ive prices) determined by the Ministers of Trade, Indus try, and Finance on the recommendation of a Check Price Team. These prices are set to reflect c.i.f. prices and are changed when prices abroad d i f fer by more than 10 per cent f rom the check prices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempt from import duties are also exempt from sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver commemorative coins; Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 may be taken out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person, while the limit applicable to gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 is Rp 130,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; fer- 208 tilizers (except urea and ammon ium su l fa te ); rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low- qua l i ty rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper ( f rom Java and M a d u r a ); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian J a y a ); iron scrap; steel scrap ( f rom Java, Madura, and Suma t ra ); rice; and various types of sugar. The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver, antiques of cu l tural value, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Otherwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state trading firms. All exporters except certain m in ing companies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported (see footnote 4 ). The exporter must surrender the fu ll fore ign exchange value prior to sh ipment if there is no banker's letter of credit. 5 For the principal export commodities other than pe- troleum, the sale prices must not be lower than "indica- tion" prices ("check" prices) determined periodically by the M in is ter of Trade. The fu ll proceeds f rom exports other than petroleum, products of certain m in ing com- panies, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" traders are subject to surrender (except in "border- crossing" trade, see be low). Exports of copra cake, sawn t imber, hides, rubber, coffee, palm kernels, palm oil, pepper, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 per cent tax, and the ma jor m ineral products and unsawn timber to a 10 per cent tax. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade w i th Malaysia, the value of import or export shipments must not exceed M$600 a mon th, if transported overland, and M$600 a shipment, if transported by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rup iah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single tr ip if transported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed p r im a r i ly by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of Janua ry 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presidential Guidelines issued on Janua ry 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, and by two Presidential Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977. In principle, such investments may be unde r taken only through a jo int venture w i th an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the Investment Coordi- nating Board (BKPM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business un i ts must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must 3 There are separate a r rangemen ts for expor ts of orchids. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) and to make trans- fers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday f rom corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit f rom tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a t rans fer permit. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaran teed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two k inds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating on ly to c la ims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors w i l l ing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are t rans fe rab le to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DICS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw ma ter ia ls necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the rem i t tance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in com- modities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits w i th foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions, and private companies are subject to Bank Indonesia directives w i th respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits f rom nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 30 per cent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of fore ign exchange banks; ° no deposit requirements are applicable to the foreign bor- rowings of nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions or private com- panies. Certain borrowing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and /or the M in is t ry of Finance. The prior approval of the M in is ter of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan f rom abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na t iona l i ty may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securi- ties denominated in rupiahs or in fore ign currency. 6 The reserve requirement was lowered to 15 per cent with effect f rom January 1, 1978. INDONESIA Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and sil- ver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a per- son, and gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an extra levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1977 January 1. Measures were announced to increase the protection of some segments of domestic indus try. These inc luded, inter a l ia, a 100 per cent advance import deposit, an additional 100 per cent financial guarantee deposit, and a 100 per cent advance payment of import duty. Such payments were to be made at the t ime of opening of letters of credit. Also, the use of bank credit and of merchant letters of credit was prohibited, and ad jus tmen ts were made in the import duties that had been announced in October 1976. Imports of many varieties of textiles became subject to these regulations, and on Janua ry 28, imports of certain polyester fibers, g u n ny sacks, and re inforc ing steel were added to the list. Par t ial exemption f rom import duty and import sales tax was given for the import of indus t r ial sewing machines. January 11. The Ministry of Industry specified a t ime tab le for the gradual implementation of a ban on imports of motorcycle and motor scooter components. Du r ing the interim period through 1980, motorcycles or motor scooters must be imported in completely knocked- down condition and specified locally manufac tured com- .ponents must be used in their assembly. The decree also limited the number of types of vehicles to be imported by each agent. January 11. A 50 per cent import duty reduction became effective for imports of cod liver oil. February 15. A list of investment priorities was announced, designating four categories: ( 1) with priority, e.g., steel; (2) w i th facilities, e.g., logging and saw mills; ( 3) without priority, e.g., m anu f a c tu r ing of structural metal products; and (4) areas closed to fore ign invest- ment, e.g., textile mills in Java. February 21. A ircraft batteries and aircraft tires were totally exempted f rom import du ty and import sales tax. March 24. Imports of wood pulp in 1977 by certain paper mills for paper m a n u f a c t u r i ng were totally exempted f rom import du ty and import sales tax. April 4. Whole milk powder or fu ll cream milk powder in packs of 25 kilograms or more were partially exempted from import duty. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA April 20. Radar equipment for aircraft was exempted from import duty and import sales tax. May 17. The use of merchant letters of credit was prohibited for all imports. All imports must be made under bank sight letters of credit or be consigned to a bonded warehouse. May 30. Machinery for silk-worm breeding and silk- spinning projects was exempted from import duty and import sales tax. June 8. Certain imports of goods for projects under the Domestic Capital Investment Law were exempted from the 40 per cent import deposit requirement and the handling bank was exempted f rom the requirement to provide foreign exchange cover for the letters of credit for these imports. July 11. Partial exemption f rom import duty and import sales tax was given to the import of pesticides for smallholder agriculture and agricultural estates. July 29. Certain textile items were exempted f rom the protectionist measures of January 1. October 3. The Investment Coordinating Board was made the sole agency with authority to approve invest- ment applications. October 25. Import duty and import sales tax on raw materials to produce fibers, finished ya rn, and certain textile materials were raised. December 30. Under new regulations, effective January 1, 1978: ( 1) Foreign exchange banks were per- mitted to open usance letters of credit with a validity of not more than 180 days after the date of shipment (a) upon the request of an authorized producer or an importer, with respect to raw materials, production equipment, and spare parts needed in the production process and not for onsale, and (b) upon the request of importers, with respect to the import of selected goods to be determined by the Ministry of Trade. (2) Selected goods also to be determined by the Ministry of Trade, might be exported on irrevocable usance letters of credit provided that (a) the usance d ra ft would be drawn upon and accepted by the banks opening letters of credit; and ( b) the due date of the irrevocable usance letter of credit should not be later than 180 days after the date of shipment. (3) The reserve requirement applicable to foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks was reduced f rom 30 per cent to 15 per cent. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0108055 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial, corresponding to R ls 82.2425 = SDR 1. The exchange rate is maintained on the basis of this par value equivalent. Iran has availed itself of wider mar- gins, and the intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1977 the official rate of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central Bank) for the U.S. dollar, the only currency that is officially quoted, were Rls 70.35 buying, and Rls 70.60 selling, per US$1. The Central Bank also publishes daily exchange rates for 14 other currencies l for purposes of the calculation of import registration fees and import duties; these rates are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the London market rates for the currencies concerned. There is a dual exchange market, consisting of a com- mercial market (or official rate market) with fixed U.S. dollar rates and a noncommercial market with fluctu- ating rates. Both markets operate w i th in the bank ing sys- tem. The Central Bank stands ready to purchase f rom the commercial banks, at official rates, any foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services. Import payments must in principle be settled in the offi- cial rate market. Also settled at official rates are basic allocations for certain authorized current payments (travel, study, and medical treatment abroad) and, on the supply side, any export proceeds and other current receipts converted by public sector agencies (including the National Iranian Oil Company). Transactions over clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars are in all cases settled at the official buying and selling rates. Pro- ceeds from exports other than petroleum, petroleum products, and natural gas, as well as the proceeds from exports of services, may be sold either in the official or the noncommercial market. All other payments and receipts are settled at the noncommercial market rate. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions must take place through the Central Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Commerce after being approved by the Council of Ministers. Foreign trade relations with the Republic of China are under the con- trol of the National Iranian Trading Corporation within the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the ten countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and North Korea must be conducted through accounts denominated in Iran ian rials. Settlements with Mexico may optionally be made through a clearing account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected in the Asian monetary unit or in the currency of one of the countries that are parties to the individual contract con- cerned. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petro- leum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Settlements with other coun- tries normally are settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used both for payments in Iran and for conversion into foreign cur- rencies through the noncommercial market. Foreign nationals as well as Iranian physical or juridical persons may maintain sight or time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annu- ally, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iran ian year, is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of goods whose importation is con- sidered essential are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agen- cies (generally the Ministry of Commerce) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose importation is not considered essential, including goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral export/import list for countries with which Iran has bilateral trade and payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Commerce. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "pro- hibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these com- prise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports of "authorized" goods without payment through the official exchange market require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. However, these imports are permitted without limitation, provided that registration is made before the order is placed. Such imports up to US$5,000 are per- mitted without prior registration but are subject to a registration fee; payments may be made either through the commercial or the noncommercial exchange market. In addition, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery; spare parts and raw or intermediate materials for productive entities, up to US$1,000 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$300 a shipment. Im- ports on this basis are exempt f rom the import registra- tion deposit. Imports of gifts, whether of "author- ized" or "unauthorized" commodities, are restricted to R ls 20,000 a person a year. Specified commodities, such as cigarette paper, sugar, tobacco, and wheat are imported under state monopoly. Payments may be made either against bills for collec- tion or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without prior authoriza- tion for goods (ma in ly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iran ian date 12 /5 /2524 ). Payments for imports of other goods may also be made against bills for collection without prior permission from the Central Bank, provided that the bills are settled w i th in n ine mon ths. All orders for imports must be registered w i th the Central Bank through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Impor ts f r om Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat- ing in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, a fee of 1 per cent of the amount of the import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate, is collected by author- ized banks. Imports brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran are exempt f rom the fee. For some goods, importers must lodge with the Central Bank, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value; this is done at the t ime of registration. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt f rom the registra- t ion deposit. The deposit is re fundab le upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Central Bank may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in wh ich an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category and vice versa. 212 Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addi- tion to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial benefit tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presen- ta t ion of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received f rom government agen- cies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the noncommercial market. In addition, there are certain allocations at the official rate for travel, study, and medical treatment abroad. Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insur- ance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange is not granted to exporters for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance premiums, although reinsur- ance premium payments are permitted. Authorized banks are permitted to remit interest on importers' sup- pliers' credit not exceeding 8.5 per cent; higher interest rates require special permission from the Central Bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assist- ants, whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government, may remit at the official rate about 50 per cent of their net salaries; any additional amounts may be remitted through the noncommercial market. The basic travel allowance for Iranian and for- eign nationals —the equivalent of R ls 50,000 a person a trip —may be made available by authorized banks at the official rate upon presentation of a valid passport and exit permit; each accompanying member of the passport holder's fam i ly is entitled to the same allowance, and there is no limit on the number of times a person may avail himself of this facility. Additional funds in respect of personal or business travel may be purchased freely in the noncommercial market. Banks may sell, at the official rate, up to the equivalent of Rls 200,000 a person to Iran ian nationals traveling or residing abroad, for medical treatment; additional foreign exchange at the official rate can be obtained against medical bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad, and any fur ther amounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may be purchased in the noncommercial market. Iranian physical and juridical persons may freely make remit- tances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources abroad, including export proceeds; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of R ls 10,000 for each single-journey exit permit. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage travel. For fam i ly members traveling on the same pass- port (w ife and children from 7 to 18 years of age), the rate is Rls 2,500 a person. Iran ians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to author- ized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert up to Rls 50,000 into other currencies at the official rate, upon presentation of their visaed passport, and may freely convert any additional amount in the noncommercial market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufactured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The Central Bank offers preferential discount facilities for export bills. The foreign currency proceeds of commodities other than petroleum, petroleum products, and na tural gas may be retained abroad; if they are repatriated, they may be kept as foreign currency deposits with domestic banks or sold to the bank ing system either in the official exchange market or in the noncommercial mar- ket. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in U.S. dollars and other quoted currencies (see footnote 1), but they are permitted to accept other cur- rencies at their discretion. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iran ian banknotes; higher amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail also requires Central Bank approval. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign currency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign IRAN exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Private outward transfers of capital may be made through the noncommercial market, irrespective of their purpose. Retransfer abroad of foreign capital at the official selling rate is permitted with Central Bank approval, provided that the inflow had been specifically authorized by the Central Bank and was registered with the Central Bank. Authorized banks may freely accept inflows of foreign exchange from abroad (both deposits and borrowings) and may lend the foreign currency to residents or sell it in the noncommercial market for rials; the rial counterpart may be lent to residents, but such lending is subject to the applicable credit ceilings. At the end of 1977 the net short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks were subject to a reserve requirement of 30 per cent. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regu la t ions imp lemen t ing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repa- triated, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign ex- change and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official market selling rate prevailing on the date of transfer. However, the Central Bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate remains applicable to the funds when they are repatri- ated. Capital imported under this law in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the Central Bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buy ing rate prevailing on the date of application for conversion. All conversions must take place in the official market (capital, profits and dividends, amortiza- tion, and liquidation proceeds). Foreign participation in domestic enterprises is subject to ceilings. In invest- ment areas with special technological requirements, foreign participation is limited to 35 per cent. In sectors with lower technological requirements the ceiling is less than 35 per cent. However, in newly founded joint ownership companies, the foreign partner may apply for a higher share in ownership for up to five years, unless he immediately limits his share to the legal maximum. Gold No Iranian gold coins are legal tender.4 Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in Iran, and there is a free mar- ket for both. Authorized banks may import and export gold and silver (bullion only, which for gold must be at least 995/1000 fine) with prior approval of the Central 4 Article 2 ( d) of the Monetary and Banking Act prohibits the use of gold coins as legal tender. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Bank, against settlement through the official rate mar- ket, and sell these metals to any person in Iran. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Central Bank, while the import for industrial and dental use is effected by professional organizations, at the official rate and subject to supervision by the Central Bank. The Central Bank accepts gold bullion on deposit from domestic banks as well as nonbank residents and issues gold certificates against such deposits. Travelers may freely import and export gold bullion up to 1 kilogram a person a trip; the Central Bank is empowered to approve larger quantities. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports of gold are free from customs duty but are subject to a commercial benefit tax of 5 per cent and an import registration fee of 1 per cent. Bank Melli Iran and other commercial banks give daily quotations for domestic sales. Changes during 1977 March 21. New trade regulations for 1977-78 abol- ished commercial benefit taxes on the import of laying hens, lead and zinc blocks for printing shops, and com- puters. Commercial benefit taxes were reduced on imports of cotton yarn (from Rls 50 to R ls25 a kilo- gram, certain cotton textiles ( f rom Rls90 to R ls70 a kilogram), space heaters ( f rom 40 per cent to 30 per cent of va lue ), coffee grinders ( f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent of va lue ), meat grinders ( f rom 25 per cent to 20 per cent of va lue ), and nonelectric refrigerators (from 35 per cent to 15 per cent of value). Items on which such taxes were raised include gold imports (from nil to 5 per cent of value), cellophane tapes ( f rom R ls30 to R ls50 a kilogram), plastic tapes ( f rom R ls50 to R ls90 a k i logram), and transformers of two kilowatts and less ( f rom 25 per cent to 35 per cent of va lue ). The trade regulations also provided for an increase in the number of items for which the prior authorization of the Ministry of Commerce was required. Imports of iron and steel were to be effected through the Foreign Transactions Company, a subsidiary organization of the Ministry of Commerce. June 15. The Customs Administration announced that the maximum time for the storage of goods in customs warehouses at airports would be limited to 30 days. November 19. Imports of bananas, oranges, and tan- gerines were made subject to payment of Rls 10 a kilo- gram to the Organization Supporting Producers and Consumers. December 10. Iran revalued the rial from Rls 70.50 buying, and Rls 70.75 selling, per US$1 to Rls 70.35 buying, and Rls 70.60 selling, per US$1. December 14. In order to maintain a stable relation- ship between the rial and the U.S. dollar the Central Bank discontinued the procedure followed since Feb- ruary 12, 1975 of adjusting the rial rate against the U.S. dollar whenever the rial-SDR rate remained out- side the wider margins for five consecutive business days. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar. The parity for the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency, is ID 1 = US$3.3778, and Iraq avails itself of wider margins. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed cur- rencies l or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies, other than the U.S. dollar, for its transactions w i th authorized dealers only. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Adm in is tra t ion of the Central Bank; this a u t h o r i ty is executed through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain approval au thor i ty to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer un less other- wise authorized by the Board of Adm in i s t ra t ion. All branches of the Raf ida in Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Council for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, including an import pro- gram, is established annually, and foreign exchange allo- cations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies. Transactions per- mitted in the listed currencies may a l terna t ive ly be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Payments to and receipts from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- dent accounts are divided into ordinary nonres ident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital trans- fers. Iraqi nationals who have been work ing abroad for at least a year or who become residents a f ter hav ing been nonresidents may open accounts in foreign curren- cies with banks in Iraq and credit these with up to 50 per cent of their foreign savings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, includ- ing imports for the holder's personal use, imports of certain capital goods, or meeting expenditures abroad 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. for travel, medical treatment, and study purposes; pay- ments from these accounts up to the equivalent of ID 500 a year do not require central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of many commodities, including ju te, sugar, tea, edible oil, certain medical supplies, machine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopoly. All pri- vate imports are subject to licenses except those for development projects benefiting f rom Law No. 157 of 1973; in principle these are issued in accordance w i th an annual import program, but some imports take place outside the program. Imports of all goods from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protection list are in principle prohibited from all sources. A tax of up to 15 per cent is levied on the amount of any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on imports of capi- tal goods and a tax of 0.75 per cent on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments f rom foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ), all payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to 50 per cent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the par t icu lar contract extends this l im it to 75 per cent, subject to the approval of the Central Bank. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist and business travel of ID 300 a trip for each person 12 years of age or over (ID 150 for children under 12 ), for trips of a month or less to Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey; for trips of over a month the allow- ance is increased to ID 400 (ID 200 for children under 12), and for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances are reduced to 50 per cent of the basic allowance. For travel to other countries, the basic allow- ance is ID 500 a tr ip for each person 12 years of age or over for trips not exceeding one month, ID 600 for 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ longer trips, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent trips in the same calendar year. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 200 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 100 for persons over 5 and under 18). On leaving the country, Iraqi nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to Gu lf coun- tries or on an official mission. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Council for the Regulation of Trade has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the Marke t ing and Services Corporation. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them w i th in six months after shipment. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding I ran ), India, and Pakistan are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. The extent of financial sup- port may not exceed 25 per cent of the value of the goods, and commodities whose import content exceeds 40 per cent are ineligible. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 f rom invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel cu r rency ), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control fo rm; amounts not intended to be taken out of the coun try are exempt from declaration. Travelers may br ing in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With m inor excep- tions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. The transfer of profits (net of income tax) f rom foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per ann^m of the paid-up capital for trad ing companies, to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial com- panies, and to 50 per cent of total profit for service 216 companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentage. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limita- tions and interest payments are not subject to ceilings. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval; such transfers are severely restricted. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in convertible currency free ly through a licensed dealer for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be trans- ferred abroad in convertible currency. Similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals to bring in convertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the funds in for- eign currency accounts, balances in which are freely transferab le abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973 ), certain incentives and guarantees may be granted to approved investments of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms except banks 2 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requ ir ing special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since 1961, the Ra f ida in Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely b r ing gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of en try on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1977 April. To reduce congestion at customs warehouses, importers were given two months to register, clear, or store goods instead of four months as previously. For goods imported by air the comparable period was set at one month f rom the date of arrival. Goods not cleared within the prescribed period were liable to be sold by auction. April 5. The import program for 1977 came into effect. It made provision for imports valued at ID 1.756 billion, compared with an initial allocation of ID 1.382 billion for 1976. In conjunction w i th the import pro- gram for 1977, the following lists were published: (1) permissible imports to the private sector; (2) prohibited items; ( 3) items for which licenses would be granted only when local production did not satisfy the market; (4) items restricted to the General Trade Establishment. 2 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on January 2, 1978) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound. Since June 23, 1972, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Irish pound within prescribed margins, except for sterling. The Cen- tral Bank of Ireland quotes the pound sterling at par with the Irish pound, and transactions in sterling are free of commission. The Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for other currencies, which are approximately equal to the rates quoted against sterling in London. On December 31, 1977, the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.9200 and US$1.9170, respectively, per Irish pound. Certain capi- tal transactions involving investment currency (see sec- tion on Capital, below) take place at d i f fe rent effective rates; on January 2, 1978 the investment currency pre- mium was 32.25 per cent (based on the spot exchange rate of US$1.9245 per Irish pound ). Forward transac- tions between authorized banks and their customers must have an underlying commercial transac t ion. On February 15, 1961, Ireland fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving no rmal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this pur- pose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Indus t ry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Depar tment of Agri- culture and Fisheries if they are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control pur- poses. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Irish exchange control regulations distinguish between (1) the Scheduled Territories, consisting of Ire land, Northern Ireland, Great Britain, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and Gibraltar, and (2) the rest of the world. The latter is subdivided into ( 1) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries which on June 23, 1972 ceased to be regarded as Scheduled Terri- tories; 1 (2) EEC member countries other than the 1The Overseas Sterling Area thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, Grenada, Guyana, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa it, Leeward Islands,' Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius and Dependency, Nauru, Namibia (South West A fr ica ), New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependen- cies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu (Ellice Islands), Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. United Kingdom and Ireland; (3) Rhodesia; and (4) the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST), which consists of all other countries. Payments to and from other Scheduled Territories may be made freely in Irish pounds or pounds sterling; certain insurance payments between Scheduled Territories, however, may be made in foreign currencies.2 Authorized payments to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia mu st be received in Irish pounds a n d / or in sterling. The proceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in fore ign currency other t h an Rhodesian currency; paymen ts to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Residents are defined as persons who are pe rmanen t ly resident, for exchange control purposes, in the Scheduled Territories. How- ever, some Irish regu la t ions are in terms of Irish resi- dents (residents of I re land) only. I re land is a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the exchange control regula- t ions of the Un i ted K ingdom. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. Accounts in Irish pounds or sterling of persons resident in countries out- side the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, w i th the exception of Rhodes ian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited w i th payments authorized for t rans fer to countries out- side the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, w i th transfers f rom other External Accounts, with the pro- ceeds in Irish pounds or sterling of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resident of a country outside the Scheduled Territories to an author- ized bank in Ireland, and with the proceeds of Irish cur- rency notes (the crediting of notes in denominations exceeding <£ Ir 10 requires specific app rova l) or sterling notes received f rom outside the Scheduled Territories. Balances on these accounts may be transferred free ly to other External Accounts, used for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland in to any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Au thor ized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the name of non- residents in any foreign currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The open ing of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank. 3 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than those of a Scheduled Territory. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities o r ig ina t ing in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to three types of adm in is- trative control. Under the first type, which covers on ly a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of cer ta in commodities are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.3 Indi- v idual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quan t i ty of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to ( 1) cycle tires f rom non-OECD countries and Japan, and (2) cer- tain textiles and yarns or ig ina t ing in any of 16 specified countries or territories,4 (3) automobile tire cases m anu- factured in the German Democratic Republic, and (4) footwear m anu f a c tu r ed in Czechoslovakia and the Republic of China. Second, imports of certain goods f rom non-EEC sources may f rom t ime to time be sub- ject to restriction or surveillance by v i r tue of EEC deci- sions, directives, or regulations. All other imports gen- erally are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. Under the third type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Scheduled Territories, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months a f ter the date of the order. In addi- tion, Ireland operates a system of surve i l lance licensing for imports f rom all sources of certain footwear, cloth- ing, and other textiles, and for imports f rom non-EEC sources of sisal binder twine; under this system, licenses generally are issued v ir tua l ly automatically. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or s ter l ing to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding <£Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions out- side the Scheduled Territories. Paymen ts to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Approval to make payments for most inv is- ibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. 3 Most of the remaining quotas are being g radua l ly increased in accordance with EEC commitments and with an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the en largemen ts are made on a global basis, although the obligations relate only to goods origi- nating in the United Kingdom and the other EEC coun tr ies. * Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of China, Republic of Ch ina, Czecho- slovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, H u n g a r y, Ind i a, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 218 For tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of Ire land of < £ I r 5 00 a person for each trip, or where the traveler in tends to be outside the Scheduled Territories for more than two mon ths, <£Ir 1,000. For business trave l, up to «£Ir 3,000 at a rate of <£Ir 100 a day is allowed for each journey, or alternatively, the basic travel allowance. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amoun ts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than < £ I r 5 00 of an allowance of fore ign currency may be issued in the fo rm of currency notes. Persons travel- ing to des t ina t ions outside the Un i ted Kingdom (other than to Rhodes ia) may also take w i th them up to <£ Ir 100 in Scheduled Territory currency notes. Travel- ers who are resident ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodes ia) may take w i th them any foreign currency notes that they brought in to Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the Un i ted K ingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on exports to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Scheduled Territories must obtain payment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if their value exceeds £ , I r l O O. When payment is received in foreign cur- rencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control fo rms are required for exports exceeding «£Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requ iremen ts govern ing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if fo re ign currencies are received they mu st be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for the ir re ten t ion must be obtained. Any fore ign currency held by a person a f ter his return f rom a tr ip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent tr ip abroad. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of Irish or foreign bankno tes. Capital Inward and outward movements of capital between Ireland and other Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control and take place at the official exchange rate. Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to coun tr ies outside the Scheduled Territories. The normal allowance available to Irish resi- dents on emigration to a coun try outside the Scheduled Territories, other than Rhodesia, is <£ Ir 40,000 a fam i ly; there is no allowance for em ig ra t ion to Rhodes ia. Where the to tal va lue of an em ig ran t 's assets exceeds <£ Ir 40,000, the t ran s fer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years f rom the em igran t's redesignation as a nonres iden t, i.e., f rom the date of departure from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ireland. After the four-year period, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Scheduled Terri- tory residents. However, permission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted f u n ds to be trans- ferred outside the Scheduled Territories through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Irish registered securities or in s ter l ing securities.5 For Irish residents tak ing up permanent residence in an EEC country other than the Un i ted Kingdom, includ- ing people tak ing up employment, applications are con- sidered to t rans fer Irish or U.K. assets to the new coun t ry of residence in excess of the normal allowances. Appli- cations for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than em igra t ion are considered on the ir merits, but there are special facilities in respect of capital movements to, or direct inves tment in, a member coun- try of the EEC. There are no restrictions on the inf low of cap i ta l, but inward direct investment f rom outside the Scheduled Territories requires exchange control approval and net inflows into the banks may be subject to gu ide l ines set from time to time by the Central Bank: At the end of 1977 the fo l low ing guidelines were in fo rce: The banks are required to deposit w i th the Central Bank 50 per cent of any net capital inf lows occurr ing a f t er May 1977. However, sub ject to prior con su l ta t ion w i th the C en t r al Bank, inf lows of capital in connection w i th the financing of ma jor indus t r ial projects, whe ther pub l ic or p r iva te, may be exempted f rom the 50 per cent requ i remen t. Moreover, inflows th at may t empo r a r i ly a r ise f rom acceptances already arranged, may also be exempted f rom the requ i remen t. Purchases of unquo ted Irish securities by nonres iden ts of the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonu rban land by foreign na t iona ls in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. In com ing capital received in fore ign currenc ies must be o f fe red for sale to an authorized bank. However, inve s tment currency, i.e., the fore ign cu r rency proceeds f rom the sale ma in ly of foreign currency secur i t ies G sold outside the Scheduled Territories, may be f u l ly reinvested or held as investment currency. The Central Bank w i ll consider app l ica t ions by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member coun t ry of the EEC w i th fo re ign currency purchased at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange. The sale proceeds of proper ty in any EEC coun t ry, whenever purchased, must be converted at the official rate of exchange. Residents may ob ta in, subject to ind iv idu al permission, reasonable amoun ts of inves tment cu r rency to purchase property outside the Scheduled Territories (other than the EEC ), for personal use. Payments for a t tendant expenses and imp rovemen ts must also be made with investment currency. Approval is no rma l ly limited 5 Securities solely payable in pounds s te r l ing and quo ted on a recog- nized security m a rk et w i th in the Scheduled Terr i tor ies. 6 Foreign cu r rency securities are all securities on wh ich capital monies and dividends are payable or optionally payab le in a f o r e i gn currency and that are quoted on a recognized secur i ty m a rk e t. IRELAND to one property a f am i ly. Purchases f rom residents of the Scheduled Territories must be settled in Irish pounds or sterling. The entire foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale of property outside the Scheduled Territories purchased for the personal use of a resident (other than property situated in an EEC coun t ry) are normally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; where only part is sold, the foreign currency proceeds must be sold in the official fore ign exchange marke t. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Scheduled Terri- tories. Purchases of quoted foreign currency securities for portfolio investment must be financed either with inves tment currency or with fore ign currency borrowing. Borrowing for investment in securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty, and the European Atomic Energy Commun i ty are subject to less s tr ingent requirements .7 Direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories requires prior approval and may norma l ly be financed with investment currency or by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in cer ta in cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct inves tmen ts by Irish residents in EEC member countries other than the Un i ted Kingdom. The fo re ign currency proceeds of the sale or l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts outside the Scheduled Territories are not eligible for sale in the inves tment currency ma rke t. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted f ree ly between residents of the Scheduled Territories. Specific approval is required for all dealings by Irish residents in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Rem i t tances of cash g if ts or personal loans to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories, other than Rho- desia, are no rma l ly permitted up to <£ Ir 1,500 a donor a ca lendar year. For dependen ts, an add i t ional amount of up to <£Ir 2,000 a donor a year in cash g i f ts or per- sonal loans may be rem i t ted to countries outside the Scheduled Territories, other than Rhodesia. Applications by Irish residents to make cash g i f ts or personal loans, in excess of the no rmal a l lowance, to EEC residents, w i ll be considered. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank pr iva te sector borrow ing f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories; such applications are consid- ered on their merits and, except as regards borrow ing for the acquisition of proper ty for personal use, on the benefit l ike ly to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrow ing outside the Scheduled Territories is unde r- taken fo l low ing consu l ta t ion w i th the Central Bank. Lend ing of Irish currency to nonres iden ts of the Sched- uled Territories is not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted, except to the 7 Such bo r row ings may be repaid in equal installments over five years w i th official fo re ign exchange; in terest charges also may be paid w i th off ic ial fo re ign exchange. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of non-Scheduled Territories' diplo- matic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a medium for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of an EEC-controlled company can, subject to exchange control approval, obtain from Irish banks all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coins and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coins or bullion normally is given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial purposes, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1977 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative regulations were made in accord- ance with EEC decisions, regulations, and directives; most of these related to textiles. January 17. An 8 per cent devaluation of the Irish "green pound" became effective. February 15. Knitted car seat covers and knitted steering wheel covers became importable free of excise duty. March 23. The EEC Commission authorized Ireland to impose special charges on imports of certain confec- tionery items and processed agricultural goods f rom the United Kingdom, and to subsidize Irish exports of the same goods, in order to make up for the difference in value between the U.K. and the Irish "green pounds." These special charges were terminated on Ju ly 4 when the EEC system of monetary compensation amoun ts was extended to include these products. April 1. A further devaluation of 6.3 per cent of the Irish "green pound," became effective. June 23. The Central Bank informed licensed banks that 50 per cent of any net capital inflow to banks occur- ring after May 18, 1977 should be deposited with the Central Bank. Inflows of capital in connection with the financing of major industrial projects, whether public or private, would be exempted both from the 50 per cent deposit requirement and the primary and secondary liquidity ratio requirements. Inflows that might tempo- rarily arise from acceptances already arranged would also be exempt. July I. A final alignment of 20 per cent to the com- mon external ta r i ff of the EEC took place. August 8. Under the provisions of the annual Finance Act, corporation tax for manufacturing enterprises that 220 were expanding production and employment was reduced to 25 per cent from 45 per cent, subject to certain conditions. December 6. The following changes were formally announced, some of which had been previously intro- duced administratively: ( 1) The amount which Irish residents would be per- m i t ted to transfer by way of g ift or personal loan to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories was increased from <£Ir 300 (or £Ir 1,000 in the case of OSA bene- ficiaries) to <£Ir 1,500 a donor a calendar year, irrespec- tive of the country of residence of the beneficiary. Applications would be considered from Irish residents wishing to make gifts or bestow dowries in excess of the normal allowance to or on beneficiaries resident in a member country of the EEC. Applications would also be considered for permission to make endowments to persons resident in member countries of the EEC. No exchange control restrictions would be placed on genuine transfers in these categories, to beneficiaries resident in a member country of the EEC. (2) The amount which persons tak ing up permanent residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodesia, and member countries of the EEC) would be permitted to transfer was increased from <£Ir 20,000 to £Ir 40,000 for each fam i ly unit. Appli- cations would be considered from Irish residents intend- ing to take up permanent residence in a member coun- try of the EEC, including persons tak ing up permanent employment, to transfer assets in excess of the normal allowances to their new country of residence. (3) It would no longer be obligatory for Irish resi- dents, wishing to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EEC, to purchase such property with foreign currency acquired on the investment cur- rency marke t. Applications by Irish residents for per- mission to purchase such property with foreign currency acquired at the official rate of exchange would be con- sidered by the Central Bank. The sale proceeds of prop- erty in a member country of the EEC would no longer be considered eligible for the investment currency premium. December 7. The basic travel allowance was increased f rom <£ I r300 to <£ I r500 a person for each journey. The business allowance and the health and educational allowances were also increased —in the case of business travel up to <£ Ir 3,000, at a rate of <£ Ir 100 a day. The amount of Irish currency and sterling notes which might be exported by Irish residents for travel purposes was increased from < £ I r 25 to £Ir 100, while the amount of foreign currency notes that might be exported was raised from £ I r300 to <£Ir500. December 22. The authorities announced changes in dealings in foreign currency securities, to take effect on January 1, 1978, as follows: (1) The obligation, when switching or effecting an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution outright sale in foreign currency securities, to sell an amount of investment currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the proceeds to an authorized dealer at the official rate of exchange, was abolished. (2) New arrangements were made for loan-financed portfolio investment in quoted securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community. These included the provision that foreign currency loans taken up to purchase securities issued by these organizations might now be repaid with official exchange over a five-year period. Interest charges also might be met with official exchange. Previously, such loans were repayable only out of the realization proceeds of the securities, or, in the event of a shortfall, with investment currency. IRELAND 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.120370 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound. No announced margins are ma in ta ined for foreign currencies. Since October 28, 1977 authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in fore ign mar- kets. The monetary authorities do not in principle inter- vene in the exchange market. At the end of the trading day the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quota- tions of the day as a representative rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1977 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was I£15.39 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Depart- ment of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign cur- rency accounts or in local currency accounts. The open- ing of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect t rans fe rs f rom his fore ign currency account. He may also convert funds held in the account into local cur- rency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a non- resident of a local currency account and on the local use of such fund s, including transfers between nonresidents. Nonresident holders of a local currency account may convert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together with an amount of local currency not exceeding I <£ 1,000. Funds representing the sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment had been made with foreign currency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either ( 1) PATAM accounts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange or foreign currency acquired from a bank or (2) PAZAK or TAMAM accounts which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. PATAM accounts are demand or time deposit accounts in foreign currency placed with authorized banks, which 222 must redeposit, respectively, 90 per cent or 80 per cent, of the foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Balances in these accounts are transferab le between resi- dents and may be used to pay for any bona fide inter- national current transaction. PAZAK or TAMAM accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with author- ized banks, which must redeposit all of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Two thirds of convertible exchange receipts derived f rom personal resti- tu t ion payments and from pensions of disabled soldiers who served du r ing World War II may be credited to PAZAK accounts; the remaining one third may be credited to TAMAM accounts. Funds deposited in both types of accounts are free of taxation. The permitted uses of TAMAM accounts include the fo l low ing: ( 1) the purchase through the authorized bank holding the account of foreign securities denominated in convertible foreign currency that are registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries; (2) pay- ment of premiums on existing l ife insurance policies denominated in foreign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equivalent of US$3,000 a trip; and (4) payment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. As stated above, holders of TAMAM accounts may pur- chase abroad foreign securities denominated in con- vertible currency and registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities thus ac- quired may be traded freely between residents. If the original buyer resells for foreign currency securities bought w i th TAMAM account funds, he may deposit the proceeds in a TAMAM account. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources and all imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Since October 28, 1977 almost all imports of goods are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. A few imports remain on a Restricted List and are subject to approval. This list includes mainly some meat and dairy products, sugar, tobacco, chemicals, and pharmaceutical products. Oilseeds and edible fats are imported exclu- sively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted auto- matically by the banks upon presentation of proof of the bona fide nature of the import transaction. A value- added tax is levied on almost all imported and domes- tically produced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invis- ibles is provided automatically upon proof of the na ture of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a traveler for each journey. No limits apply with respect to credit cards. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel banknotes. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers fore ign currency up to US$3,000 and may, in addition, take out up to I <£ 1,000 in Israel bank- notes. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a deposit account abroad an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their tu rnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PATAM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies f rom tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. One third of the foreign exchange received by resi- dents of Israel as restitution payments and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II may be retained in TAMAM accounts, and the other two thirds may be held in PAZAK accounts. For 20 years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt f rom the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amounts of Israel banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident may be held in a PATAM account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of May 23, 1976, which, inter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fu lf i ll one of the fo l low ing con- ditions: (1) that they are established either in "priority ISRAEL areas" or in less developed areas; (2) that they are export oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; (3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area or in a less developed area, its produc- tion is geared to import-substitution; or (4) that the project aims at facilitating the absorption of immigrants. There is no difference between an "approved invest- ment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his right to transfer abroad the pr inc ipal or the interest or profits on his investment are concerned, and repayments and amortization of capi- tal may also be transferred. However, there are differ- ences as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Investments made by nonresidents prior to January 1, 1958 and investments made by nonresidents in foreign exchange after that date can be transferred abroad. Proceeds accruing f rom the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. Any resident may retain real estate abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from such assets; in addition, new immigrants may retain their liquid assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new imm igran ts are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM and PATAM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at stock exchanges in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities pur- chased by debit of a TAMAM or PATAM deposit can be sold and the proceeds may be recredited to the respective accounts. A general license allows nonresidents to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits of these investments, proof is required to be presented to an authorized dealer that they were made in foreign currency. Direct loans in any form to nonresidents are subject to licensing, but loans to a resident by a nonresident may be made freely if the funds are credited to a PATAM account. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad. Gold can be bought or sold only from or to an authorized dealer. Other residents are forbidden to trade in gold or to take it out of Israel. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Changes during 1977 January 2. Import duty reductions affecting about 750 ta r i ff positions, with an import value of US$175 million, went into effect. January 24. The ceiling for corrections to export invoices when calculating the export rebate was raised to 8 per cent. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL May 12. The daily travel allowance for registered exporters was increased to US$60 a day with a max imum of US$1,500. May 29. The allowance for tourist travel was increased to US$700 a journey and for children to US$250. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Brazil was terminated. July 3. A Cabinet decree eliminated the provision that limited to 8 per cent the cumulative amount of deprecia- tion of the exchange rate in each four-month period without Cabinet approval. August 10. Residents were allowed to keep up to one third of their foreign currency earnings in special accounts f rom which they may draw up to US$ 1,000 for each fam i ly member a year, to pay for travel and other expenses abroad, in addition to the regular travel allow- ance and without paying the 15 per cent surcharge. Businessmen were allowed to keep, in special accounts, all the money earned abroad and to draw up to US$1,500 for travel purposes. Previously, the authorization for the use of these accounts applied only to registered exporters. September 20. The buying rate for the Israel pound was changed to I ,£10.30 = US$1. The max imum rate of tax rebate for exports was increased to I<£3 .21 per US$1 of exports. These were the last of a series of changes effected since Janua ry 1, 1977, when the rates had been I£8.77 per US$1 and I<£2 .63 per US$1, respectively. October 28. A comprehensive reform of the exchange system was effected. The rate of the Israel pound ceased to be determined with respect to a composite of cur- rencies, and Israel introduced a floating exchange rate regime. Most foreign exchange restrictions were removed. The ma in changes were that the temporary surcharges of 15 per cent on imports and some invisible payments were abolished; the system of indirect tax rebates to exporters was terminated; the tax on foreign travel of I £.1,000 plus 15 per cent of the price of the ticket was abolished; the travel allowance for tourists was increased from US$700 to US$3,000 a person a trip; and the structure of foreign currency accounts was simplified. The new sys- tem distinguished only between nonresident and resident accounts, with two additional types of accounts reserved for recipients of restitution payments. No restrictions were placed on the use of balances in these accounts for the mak ing of payments for current transactions. Previ- ously, nonresident accounts in local currency could be only Registered Accounts, Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts, or a few other accounts holding funds derived from former investments eligible for transfer. Balances in resident accounts under the previous system could only be used to make authorized payments and were, as a rule, not transferable between residents. The licensing require- ment for imports of goods and invisibles was almost entirely eliminated. Import duties that were 12 per cent or more were reduced by 20 per cent. Restrictions on the import of Israel banknotes were lifted. Export of domestic currency by residents was limited to the maxi- mum amount permitted by the travel allowance, and up to I £1,000 in the case of nonresidents. No limits were placed on the sale abroad of Israel currency by com- mercial banks. November 6. The bilateral payments agreement with Portugal was terminated with effect from November 1. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On March 30, 1960 an initial par value for the Italian Lira was established of Lit 625 per US$1. On Decem- ber 20, 1971, a central rate of Lit 581.50 = US$1 was established. On February 13, 1973, however, Italy notified the Fund that for the time being the exchange rate for the lira for current transactions on the official market would not necessarily be confined within the announced limits either in respect of the U.S. dollar or in respect of EEC currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1977 was about Lit 871 per US$1. Different effective exchange rates arise from most out- ward transfers of resident-owned capital, for which a noninterest-bearing deposit of 25 per cent or 50 per cent must be lodged with the Bank of Italy. The monetary authorities do not in principle intervene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces, although the Bank of Italy may from time to time offer the commercial banks certain swap facilities. Author- ized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange trans- actions in any currency, and in forward exchange trans- actions up to 360 days in major convertible and externally convertible currencies,1 when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of forward transactions against lire is subject to a limit on net transactions set ind iv idua l ly for each bank. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Public corporations which have been instructed to borrow abroad on behalf of the Bank of Italy receive fu ll forward cover for their debt service payments. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the I ta l ian Exchange Office (Uff ic io Italiano dei Cambi or UIC) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Ne the r- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as convertible cur- rencies or conto valutario currencies. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securi- ties. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, there are special arrangements under a debt liquidation agreement. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which non- residents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. 2 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies. 3 They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for pay- ments to residents of Italy for current and capital trans- actions, for payments due to residents on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and f rom other Capital Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign investments in I ta ly not made und er the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see be low). Capital Accounts may be debited for trans- fers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or exter- nally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be 2 Italians living or working abroad are permitted to maintain with Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in conto valutario currencies. They may be credited with remittances (including banknotes) sent direct to the bank f rom abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or salary earnings if credits exceed Lit 150,000 a mon th) and with interest on the balances; they may be debited freely for conversion into lire, for w i thdrawa ls in foreign bank- notes (up to Lit 100,000, for re tu rn trips abroad), and for transfers abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area workers"). These accounts may not be held by Italian representatives abroad or by Italian s ta ff employed by international organizations. a The banks' power to credit fore ign banknotes and credit instruments expressed in fore ign currency without prior authorization is limited to Lit 1 million in a calendar year for banknotes and credit instruments not remitted to the banks direct from abroad. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a Ministerial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three ma jor areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A /1 (EEC countries, Guadeloupe, French Gu iana, Mar- tinique, and Reun ion ), A /2 (overseas countries and territories, EFTA countries, and other coun tr ies associ- ated with the EEC), and A /3 ( th ird coun t r ies ); Zone B (CMEA countries, Albania, People's Republic of China, North Korea, and Viet N am ); and Zone C ( J a p a n ). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quan t i ta t ive restric- tion and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A /1 and A /2, while very few quantitative restrictions rema in for subzone A /3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports f rom countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an author- ized bank is required. Where settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation, the importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days af ter importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such pay- ments require the prior approval of the UIC if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days after the date of importation, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the Ministry of 226 Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 60 days before importation. Ad- vance paymen ts in excess of Lit 2 million must be made w i th foreign currency borrowed f rom authorized banks. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 10 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks pro- vide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used for im- port payments, subject, in the case of payments to Swit- zerland, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and fo re ign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In pr inc ip le, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. How- ever, the authorized banks may sell fore ign exchange for p aym en ts for invisibles provided that the necessary docu- men ts are submitted, except for tourist travel and travel for business, study, or health reasons; their authority to sell exchange for fam i ly remittances is limited to Lit 35,000 a transfer. Exchange is granted freely for rem i t tances of earnings or investments. Residents may use in terna t ional postal money orders for payments, subject, in the case of payments to Switzerland, to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign bene- ficiary. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: ( 1) con- tracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified coun t r ies4 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding char- ters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not u rgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents ( f or amounts exceeding L i t5 million a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights; in fo rma t ion agencies, etc. ( f or amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 million for each con- t rac t ); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year for each contract); services of professional workers and company managers ( for amounts exceeding L i t5 m i l l ion ); and services of entertainers and athletes ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for pro- duction abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synch ron iza t ion, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; 4 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, People's Republic of China ( inc lud ing Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, North Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and ( for cha r te r ing ships only) Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution insurance of ships and a ircraft against risks of opera- tion; 5 and other transactions when the amoun ts involved exceed Lit 1 million. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 750,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 750,000); the UIC grants foreign exchange above these allowances (except for t o u r i sm ), provided that it is satisfied that this is jus t if ied in the light of the duration and purpose of the trip. The amount that may be taken out in the form of foreign banknotes or travelers checks is Lit 100,000, while up to Lit 650,000 may be taken out in letters of credit, foreign payment orders, or non transferab le checks drawn on foreign banks. The limit on the amount of Italian bank- notes that can be taken out is Lit 100,000. To the extent that he refra ins f rom obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 100,000.6 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry, subject to a l im it of the equivalent of Lit 200,000 a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 100,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. However, the export of Italian banknotes in denom ina t ions larger than Lit 50,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a fo rm completed by the exporter is inu red; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an author- ized bank is required. If settlement takes places more than 360 days before exportation or more than 120 days after exportation, the exporter must effect the payments operations related to his export transactions through an authorized bank as his bank of domicile. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent within 120 days a f ter exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation. For settle- ments between 120 and 360 days a f ter exportation, the approval of the UIC is required. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the M in is try of Foreign Trade, or of the Autonomous Section for Export Credits (SACE), depending on whether the maximum delay granted to the foreign importer is longer 5 Such transactions need au thor iza t ion by the M in is try of Indus try. 8 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 35,000 a day in fo re ign and domestic banknotes and coins combined, of which foreign notes and coins must not exceed the equivalent of Lit 15,000. ITALY or shorter than five years, and on whether the transaction w i ll be covered by state insurance.7 Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment, 90 per cent of exchange receipts must be collected w i th in 120 days of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt, while 10 per cent must be collected within 24 months of ship- ment. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japa- nese yen, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in Ordinary Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for 7 days, during which period such balances may be used for permitted trans- actions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for author- ized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the UIC or among themselves.8 Af ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the reten- tion period (these rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each payment, and in certain circumstances, in foreign banknotes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts f rom exports. Shipping and insurance com- panies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may keep Opera t ing Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally con- vertible European currencies; unutilized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain any fore ign banknotes left over f rom trips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may br ing in any amount in foreign banknotes and Lit 100,000 in Italian banknotes, in denominations not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capi- tal are free. However, loans of any k ind from nonresi- dents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresi- den ts) for establishing or ma in ta in ing lasting economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of 7 The SACE was established in Ju ly 1977 and commenced operations in October. 8 Foreign currency may be retained in Ordinary Foreign Currency Accounts until the seventh day after the date on which the individual exchange receipt concerned was credited to the account. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY relationship, and, with regard to EEC countries, short- term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of serv- ices); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, portfolio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for investment fund securities, but mutual funds investing entirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addition, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by speci- fied EEC ins t i tu t ions are exempt. Outward direct invest- ment transactions have f rom time to t ime been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regula- tions. Foreign investments of any kind, including both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any form and without any limit.9 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment and under the supervision of the UIC; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (af ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- 9 Financial investment, i.e., investment not intended to establish permanent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regula- tions governing direct investment are also not applicable to participa- tions in "holdings" abroad of any kind. 228 selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by resi- dents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any kind (including mutual f u n d s ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including the investment of at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and the estab- lishment of a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues above Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to interna- tional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of prop- erty of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal grant- ing of credits for commercial transactions or the per- formance of services, with a ma tur i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC coun- tries as indicated above. The export of Italian and foreign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dol- lars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses (1) the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution spot position vis-a-vis nonresidents in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EEC currencies, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ceiling on their net foreign liability position but are prohibited from maintaining a net foreign asset position; in addition, outstanding net forward transactions against lire are subject to a ceiling set individually for each bank. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for industrial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unre- fined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for indus- trial use. Exports of wrought and semimanufactured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licensing. Imports of unrefined gold are in principle subject to value-added tax but at the end of 1977 the rate of tax was zero per cent. Imports of gold coins for numismatic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1977 January 3. The 7 per cent exchange tax that had been introduced on October 25, 1976, and reduced to 3l/2 per cent on December 27, 1976, was further reduced by l/2 of a percentage point, as part of a phased weekly reduction of Vz of a percentage point each week un t il its elimination on February 18, 1977. January 15. The deposit requirement on purchases of foreign exchange, introduced on May 6, 1976, was further reduced, from 40 per cent to 25 per cent. It was further reduced to 10 per cent on February 28, 1977, and was abolished on April 15, 1977. However, Italian investments abroad remained subject to the 50 per cent deposit requirement prescribed by the Ministerial Decree of December 22, 1975. February 2. It was announced that surveillance over imports of paper and paper products was being extended until June 30, and on color television sets until December 31. ITALY February 7. Certain increases in value-added tax and in excise taxes on certain petroleum products went into effect. Further modifications were introduced during the year. May 26. A quota of 18,000 un i ts was imposed on imports of motorcycles over 380 cubic centimeters from Japan during 1977. The decision was endorsed by the EEC Council in July. June 9. Exporters invoicing in foreign exchange and granting credit for up to 120 days were required to obtain foreign exchange financing for an amount equiva- lent to 25 per cent of the export credit (previously 50 pe rcen t ). August 18. Banks were permitted to grant credits in foreign exchange to Italian entrepreneurs abroad with- out prior official authorization, subject to certain condi- tions, for posting bid bonds, performance bonds, and advance payment bonds in the countries concerned. August 19. The Ministry of Foreign Trade raised quotas on most imports f rom Eastern European coun- tries and the People's Republic of China by 20 per cent. Import quotas on textiles and steel products remained unchanged. October 17. The limit on purchases of foreign exchange by residents traveling abroad was raised from Lit 500,000 a person a year to Lit 750,000 a person a year; within this sum the amount of foreign currency or travelers checks that residents could take out was raised f rom the equivalent of Lit 65,000 to the equivalent of Lit 100,000, while the amount of Italian banknotes that could be taken out was increased from Lit 35,000 to Lit 100,000. The remaining entitlement up to the limit of Lit 750,000 could be taken out in letters of credit, foreign payment orders, or nontransferable checks drawn on foreign banks. October 17. The ban on the export of banknotes in denominations of Lit 20,000 and Lit 50,000 was lifted. However, the export of Lit 100,000 banknotes remained prohibited. October 24. The Autonomous Section for Export Credits (SACE) which had been established on July 31 began to operate in the field of export credit insurance. The Section replaced the National Insurance Institute ( INA) and was entitled to authorize export credits for periods of one to five years. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place on the basis of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a com- mission of 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries; commission is not charged on transfers within the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange controls do not apply in financial relations with (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Cen- tral African Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Finance in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in Ivory Coast, foreign inward direct investment, and all outward investment in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, other finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- i rThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 230 ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone normally are made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Portugal (with the exception of port w ines ), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports f rom the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made on a barter basis or as compensation transactions. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., a spe- cified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license or prior authorization (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents). Imports of rice are related to domestic production so that imports are made complementary to purchases of domestically produced rice. All other imports may be made freely f rom any country, subject pnly to the submission of a declaration of in tent to import. With minor exceptions, imports by sea or air, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to preshipment inspection in order to control their price, quan t i ty, and quality. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an author- ized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 w i th- out submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other French Franc Area countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if traveling to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out higher amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for pay- ments in respect of exports to foreign countries must be not later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of a country of the French Franc Area, surrendered on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. IVORY COAST Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rho- desia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange con- trol; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning as do issues by Ivory Coast com- panies. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Finance, and Planning.2 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,3 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Ivory Coast, must be reported within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or, by approved international trading houses, to finance international merchanting transac- tions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the 8 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in Ivory Coast. 3 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repay- ment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 January 1. In the 1977 Finance Law (Lot de Finances de 1977), the duty rates charged on imports of groups and classes of commodities formerly subject to the 20.5 per cent and the 18.5 per cent rates were adjusted to 22 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively. The standard rate of value-added tax was raised to 18 per cent. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System 1 The par value is 0.900364 gram of fine gold per Jamaica Dollar. On February 20, 1973, a central rate of J$l = US$1.10 was established, corresponding at the time to J$1.09668 = SDR 1 or 0.810328 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar and Jamaica avails itself of wider mar- gins. With effect from April 27, 1977 the exchange market was split into a "basic" market, where essential imports and transactions of the Government and most transactions of the bauxite sector are conducted at the rate of J$l = US$1.10, and a "special" market, where all other transactions are conducted at a depreciated rate. The depreciated rate has been set at J$l = US$0.78125 since October 21, 1977.2 The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dol- lars are confined to transactions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, to purchases of Cana- dian, U.K., and U.S. banknotes, and to purchases of certain Caribbean and European banknotes (see below). It deals in other currencies only against sterling and U.S. dollars. The Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars at par, plus a commission of 0.1875 per cent on the selling side. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the Bank of Jamaica's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates against the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealing with the banks in sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes daily rates at which commer- cial banks must deal with their customers in transactions involving Jamaica dollars against Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to fix its buying and selling rates of exchange. For currencies other than currencies of member countries of the Carib- bean Common Market (CARicoM)3 and for spot dealings with commercial banks, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.1875 per cent on sales. For CARICOM currencies the rates for spot dealings with commercial banks reflect a commission charge of 0.125 per cent on both purchases and sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge (prem ium) of 0.375 per cent on sales of non-CARicoM currencies and a commission charge (discount) of 0.125 per cent on purchases of these currencies. For purchases equivalent 1From May 9, 1978 the dual market system was abolished. The new un i tary rate is J$1.55 per US$1. 3 With effect from January 14, 1978, the central rate was depreciated to J$l = US$0.95238 and the "special" market rate was depreciated to J$l = US$0.74074. 3 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. to J$ 1,000 or more, the commission charge (discount) is waived. For CARICOM currencies, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 per cent on both sales and purchases. Under an arrangement with the Central Banks of Trinidad and Tobago and Barbados and with the East Caribbean Currency Authority, the Bank of Jamaica purchases banknotes issued by these monetary authorities and repatriates them against settlements made through the CARICOM multilateral clearing facility. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, and transfers from External Accounts, foreign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jamaica; they sell all foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in turn purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Im- port licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Marketing and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency.4 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between non- residents. External Accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of Jamaica approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an * All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica and for invest- ment in Jamaica dollar securities and /or local mort- gages. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$ 1,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments A small number of goods may be imported freely from v ir tua l ly'a ll sources under an open general license.5 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not norma l ly issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARicoM.6 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating in the People's Republic of China or Cuba require indi- vidual import licenses. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Nutrition Holdings Limited. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the importer must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that he is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufac tured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income from emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for family maintenance, and cash gifts. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for family maintenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. In 5 For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 6 For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas are also trea ted as a CARICOM country. 234 accordance with the present wage and salary guidelines, payments of profits and dividends are permitted subject to a limit of 7 per cent of the net worth of the company, whether foreign or domestic, or a branch operating in Jamaica. A basic exchange allowance of J$72 a person for each 12-month period for foreign travel other than for busi- ness or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional reasons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of J$85 a day for the United States and J$105 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in do- mestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 per cent only of their gross salary. Remittances in respect of interest on private non- guaranteed debt and certain insurance-related trans- actions are approved for transfer on a delayed basis. Payment of interest on private nonguaranteed debt is approved on a three-month lag basis. Payments and transfers for certain transactions related to insurance (claims payable for risks written abroad, life insurance premiums, the ma tur i ty proceeds of policies held by nonresidents, and deposit premiums on reinsurance treaties) are approved for remittance without delay. For other transactions related to insurance, payments and t rans fe rs are subject to specified delays ranging f rom a m in imum of 6 months for facultative reinsurance prem iums up to a max imum of 9 months for some rein- surance balances and prem ium adjustments. Payments for group insurance (other than l i fe insurance) con- nected with a resident's membership in a professional association are subject to the approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Foreign exchange was not, as a rule, made available from December 22, 1976, when the exchange market was closed, until the end of June 1977 for payments and transfers in respect of royalties, trademarks, commis- sions and fees, and head office and management ex- penses. Remittance schedules were subsequently estab- lished for those payments and transfers that fell due before the end of June 1977. Payments and transfers that fell due a f ter June 30, 1977 are approved for remittance without undue delay. Under the present exchange control regulations, the compulsory waiting periods and nonapproval of pay- ments falling due have resulted in an accumulation of payments arrears. In addition, since the beginning of June 1977, further arrears have accumulated at times in respect of payments and transfers for imports and other transactions approvable under the exchange control regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$200 (f.o.b.) may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list.7 Where the value exceeds J$200, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furn i ture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. How- ever, with the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, certain exporters may retain an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commitments, as may be necessary for their operations; such retained export pro- ceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currencies unless they can prove that they had purchased an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Foreign exchange is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to repatriate at any time his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. 7 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, South Africa, and U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. JAMAICA Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican com- panies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident- controlled when the controlling interest is held bene- ficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, foreign nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 per cent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in ten equal installments, subject to a minimum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous undertaking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can satisfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emigrated abroad and to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies. A maximum of J$4,000 a year may be allowed by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. Under the exchange control guidelines of January 19, 1977, payments and transfers in respect of the amortiza- tion of private nonguaranteed debt are approved for remittance in the calendar quarter following the quarter in which they fall due. However, payments and transfers for this purpose have not normally been approved. Gold Two commemorative gold coins of J$20 and J$100 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewelry are prohibited. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Changes during 1977 January 1. A new system specifying eligible process- ing or manufacturing activities replaced the 50 per cent value-added criterion in the determination of eligibility for duty-free treatment under the CARICOM agreement. January 5. It was announced that the import ceiling for 1977 was J$600 million. January 6. The foreign exchange market was reopened on a limited basis for outstanding import payments, essential business and official travel, other "essential" travel subject to a limit of J$150 a person, and service payments of public sector debt and private debt with a public guarantee and of all debt to governments and official entities of the CARICOM countries. In addition, commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign exchange for maintenance and education allowances already approved and for emergency medical treatment. The foreign exchange market remained closed for all other transactions. January 19. New exchange control guidelines came into force, which provided, inter alia, for the following: (1) The Bank of Jamaica became the sole agency for buying and selling foreign exchange. Commercial banks would act only as agents of the Bank of Jamaica; they would sell all foreign exchange to the Bank of Jamaica and in turn would purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. (2) Foreign exchange would not be sold for capital and income remittances to emigrants, for students seeking educa- tion other than higher professional and technical edu- cation certified as such by the Ministry of Education, for beneficiaries of wills, for gifts, and, from May 1, for the maintenance of dependents abroad. Limited exceptions could be made by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. (3) Payments for royalties, trademarks, commissions and fees, insurance and rein- surance premiums, and head office and management expenses were to be blocked for the period to June 30, when new guidelines were to come into effect. (4) Divi- dends or profits payable to nonresident shareholders or parent companies of branches operating in Jamaica would be subject to the general guidelines limiting divi- dends and profits to 7 per cent of the net worth of a company. (5) Remittances of principal and interest on private nonguaranteed foreign indebtedness would nor- mally be allowed in the quarter following the quarter in which these payments accrue. (6) With effect from April 1, a person with a work permit would be allowed to remit abroad only 20 per cent of his gross salary. (7) Residents were required to obtain permission from the exchange control authorities before purchasing local assets from nonresidents. (8) Exchange would be granted for "essential" business travel and for travel on behalf of public entities, the latter being subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Allowances for tourist travel would be limited to J$50 a person. February 9. Notice to Importers No. 2977 added 128 items to the list of banned imports. The new items added to the list included automobiles and a wide range of foodstuffs and consumer goods. February 10. Notice to Importers No. 2975 removed 9 categories of goods from the list of items not requiring a specific license for their importation into Jamaica. The 19 categories of goods that might be imported without a specific license were listed in Notice to Importers No. 2976. February 17. New guidelines came into effect for the remittance of payments and transfers for transactions related to insurance. Certain specified payments and transfers would be approved for remittance without undue delay, while other payments would be approved for remittance on the basis of specified delays. April 27. The exchange market was split into a "basic" market, where essential imports and transactions of the Government and most transactions of the bauxite sector were to be conducted at the rate of J$l = US$1.10, and a "special" market, where all other trans- actions were to be conducted at a depreciated rate of J$l = US$0.80. The allowance for tourists was raised from J$50 a year to J$70 a year; for business travel the allocations of J$60 a day to the United States and J$75 a day for Europe were raised to J$82.50 and J$103, respectively, to maintain their foreign currency value. May 1. The limit on salary remittances by persons holding work permits was raised from 20 per cent to 30 per cent of their gross annual salary to maintain unchanged the foreign currency value of remittances following the change in the exchange rate applicable to such remittances. August 1. Payment for imports of crude petroleum was transferred from the "basic" to the "special" market. October 21. The "special" exchange rate was changed from J$l = US$0.80 to J$l = US$0.78125. The allowance for tourist travel was raised to J$72 a year; the business travel allowances were increased to J$85 a day for the United States and J$105 a day for Europe. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen. A central rate of ¥ 308.00 = US$1 has been established, and Japan avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since February 14, 1973, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the yen w i th in any announced margins. The interbank rate for the U.S. dol- lar on December 30, 1977 was about ¥.240 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions w i th resident cus- tomers must have a permitted underlying transaction. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, most of the authority for verifying normal payments is delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Long-term inward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers. In some exceptional cases, outward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun- tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Free Yen Accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions, with yen proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with interest accrued on balances in these accounts, with the proceeds f rom the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates, with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments, and with credit balances f rom Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts, which were abolished in June 1977. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Imports and import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are in principle prohibited. Other imports are subject either to individual licensing by the authorized banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) The Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 80 items; 27 of these have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the other 54 items have been notified as falling under the state trad- ing, national security, public health, and moral protec- tion provisions of the GATT; one item classified in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), four-digit, is counted tw ice ); once the importer has ob- tained an import quota f rom MITI, he receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon appli- cation. Practically all import quota certificates are issued by MITI on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Declaration System, imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include certain dairy prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, and raw and manu- fac tured tobacco. Payment for imports under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for imports can be made freely; otherwise, the prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Standard settlement requires that import prepayment be limited to goods not exceeding ¥ 1.8 million in value (with the exception of machinery imports, for which prepayment up to one half of their value is permitted) and that payment be made no more than four months af ter customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Inter- national Trade and Industry. Payments to other coun- tries for invisibles are subject to verification by foreign exchange banks without any limitation. Payments for donations to nonresidents, except relatives abroad, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of con- trolling illegal payments; upon verification of the authen- ticity of the payments, they are approved. Residents may purchase freely foreign currencies for payments in connection with travel abroad up to US$3,000 a person a trip; amounts in excess of US$3,000 a person a trip require the verification of a foreign exchange bank. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen or in foreign cur- rency, before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination and for all side trips. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Residents may freely and at any time make payments abroad up to US$3,000 a remittance, for virtually any purpose other than import payments, repayments on loans, technical assistance payments, etc.; the corre- sponding amount for current invisibles related to trade is also US$3,000 for each remittance. Certain insurance and technical assistance contracts require approval, but when a license for a contract has been granted, any pay- ment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to ¥ 100,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may freely purchase foreign currencies up to the equivalent of US$3,000; for larger amounts, verification is required. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be certified by a foreign exchange bank ("bank certification"). Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on cer- tain goods to control their export to specified communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., some staple foods); and restric- tions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settle- ment is not under the "standard" method also require individual licenses. Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Trade Law and an export trade control order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volumes, prices, and other condi- tions. At the end of 1977, there were 60 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Trade Law. Of these, 44 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transactions, 16 required prior approval of manufacturers' agreements on domes- tic transactions in goods for export, and 9 were rein- forced by an export license requirement. In addition, 19 items were subject to export license under the For- eign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. There are also a number of informal arrangements for the voluntary restraint of exports of certain items to speci- fied markets, with or without guidance by MITI. Under the "standard" method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in gen- eral, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months af ter shipment. There are no surrender requirements for foreign currency earnings. In cases where exporters receive payment in advance, an individual license is required for conversion of the proceeds into yen when they exceed the equivalent of US$500,000, or receipt is more than one year in advance. 238 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the "standard" method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, ren- dering the service, etc. Contracts for services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a "nonstandard" method are subject to individual licensing. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval. All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are, in principle, subject to valida- tion or license.1 However, acquisitions of stocks for port- folio investment are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan. All acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equiva- lent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends f rom earned surpluses or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. At present, the acquisition of Japanese securities by nonresidents is not restricted, although subject, in the case of shares, to the foreign ownership limits. The following are deemed to be the same as yen pro- ceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks and interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and pro- ceeds f rom sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a fore ign investment, the amount paid because of expro- priation may be repatriated freely. The remittance of the proceeds from the sale of vali- dated stocks (sha res ), as well as the transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted freely. Proceeds from the sale of bonds, debentures, and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, which are freely transferab le. There are no special rules prescrib- ing that the yen proceeds from sales of securities by nonresidents must be either reinvested in securities or converted into foreign currency for t rans fer abroad. When foreign companies wish to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they must in fo rm the Ministry of Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of 1 On Ma rch 16, 1978, nonresidents were prohibited f rom purchasing Japanese securities of less than five years and one mon th to maturity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, or to remit their profits and principal abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. Licenses are given automatically if application papers and the required documents are presented. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers and, in certain important cases, by the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownership up to 100 per cent is permitted in new or existing enterprises in all but four industries. In three of these four indus- tries, investment is subject to case-by-case screening and in one, foreign ownership is permitted automatically up to 50 per cent. The present liberalization applies both to the establishment of new firms and, provided in all cases that the firm concerned consents, to takeovers of existing firms or participation in existing firms. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan, which is given automatically; purchases of real estate for other pur- poses require approval by the Minister of Finance, which is usually given automatically. Licenses are not required in certain cases such as the acquisition of real estate for the purpose of residential or executive use by foreign diplomatic establishments. The leasing of real estate in Japan by nonresidents for residential use is also free. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval, but generally approval is either automatic or freely given for outward direct investment, purchases of real estate abroad, and outward portfolio investment. For- eign borrowers may issue yen bonds on the Japanese capital market; the t im ing and amount of issue is con- trolled by Japanese underwriters with guidance f rom the Ministry of Finance.2 Japanese emigrants and emigrants of foreign nationality may remit any amount f rom their assets to any country subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank; if the amount of the rem i t tance is less than US$3,000, the remittance may be made without verification. Foreign currency loans to residents for certain types of long-term capital outflows can be extended by government institutions and foreign exchange banks. Outward financial credits and loans are subject to licensing. The issuing of bonds abroad denominated in foreign currencies, including issues for conversion into yen for domestic use, also is subject to licensing; du r ing 1977 such issues were permitted liber- ally. The issue of yen-denominated bonds on the Euro- bond market requires approval of the Minister of Finance, and in 1977 three such placements were approved. Securities acquired with approval under the Law JAPAN Concerning Foreign Investment may be imported and exported freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject individually to controls over their overall net position in foreign cur- rency ( the ir oversold or overbought position). Japanese banks are not allowed oversold spot positions and limits are applied to the net oversold spot positions of foreign banks operating in Japan. Banks are also subject to ma tu r i ty t rans fo rma t ion control so that increases in medium-term and long-term loans must be matched, in principle, by fund ing of one year or greater maturity. Deposits held in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are subject to a reserve requirement of 0.25 per cent; increases in aggregate balances on these accounts above the average level in October 1977 are subject to a reserve requ irement of 50 per cent.3 Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import of gold bullion containing more than 45 per cent of gold in weight normally is perm i t ted, provided a payments license is obtained from the Bank of Japan. Imports of other gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold are freely permitted, subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Resi- dent or nonresident travelers may bring in up to one kilogram of gold bullion a person a tr ip and up to the equivalent of US$3,000 in articles of gold and gold coins. Gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold acquired by donation or inheritance may be imported freely, subject only to verification by the customs author- ities. Exports of gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold by residents require licenses from the Minister of Finance. Changes during 1977 February 3. The Ministry of Finance increased the amount of government-guaranteed bonds to be issued to government-related enterprises and local public entities in foreign markets from ¥ 120 billion to ¥ 166 billion in the supplementary budget for the fiscal year 1976; it was announced that in the national budget for the fiscal year 1977, ¥ 190 billion would be allowed. March 16. The Ministry of Finance issued guidelines for the issuance of yen-denominated bonds in the Euro- bond market. The guidelines stipulated that only inter- national institutions that had borrowed on the bond market in Tokyo were eligible to issue Euro-yen bonds, that the bond placements must have a Japanese institu- tion as head manager, and that nonresidents might not 2 In 1977 there were 18 flotations of yen-denom ina ted bonds t o t a l i ng ¥ 326 billion, compared with 6 issues totaling ¥ 65 billion in 1976. 3 W i th effect f rom March 18, 1978, the reserve requirement on increases in such deposits above the February 1978 mon th ly average was raised to 100 per cent. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN raise offshore yen bonds without the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The first Euro-yen bond, to be issued by the European Investment Bank, was approved by the Ministry of Finance. April 1. The interest income from yen bonds, of which the principal amount was up to ¥ 3 million per person, issued in Japan by government-guaranteed for- eign borrowers and by international organizations (des- ignated by the Ministry of Finance), of which Japan was not a member, was exempt from income tax. (Tax exemption was already applied to yen bonds issued by foreign central and local governments.) April 13. The Ministry of Finance endorsed a yen- denominated Eurobond issue of the British Government designed to reduce sterling balances. May 13. The Ministry of Finance announced the fol- lowing revisions of exchange control procedures for transactions in invisibles: ( 1) The amount of foreign currency which could be freely remitted for transactions in invisibles was raised from US$1,000 to US$3,000, and remittances in excess of this amount would be sub- ject to verification by foreign exchange banks only for amounts above US$1,000. (2) The limitations on remittances for donations to relatives abroad were elimi- nated. (3) Japanese nationals traveling abroad would be able to take out freely up to US$3,000, and, for greater amounts, would be subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank; previously, amounts up to US$1,000 were subject to such verification, while amounts over US$3,000 required approval by the Bank of Japan. (4) The amount of foreign currency which a nonresident, when leaving the country, can purchase without the approval of a foreign exchange bank was raised to US$3,000 from US$1,000. (5) The require- ment of validation by the Bank of Japan for payments on overseas contracts, such as purchases of television rights, was eliminated. May 18. Silk yarn and knitted or crocheted silk were placed under the prior permission system. May 21. A bilateral trade agreement was concluded with Korea to regulate the import of Korean silk products. May 24. The Bank of Japan announced a 0.25 per cent reserve requirement on foreign exchange banks' liabilities in foreign currencies, on free yen liabilities, and on residents' external foreign currency deposits w i th foreign exchange banks, with effect from June 1. May 27. The Ministry of Finance announced the following changes in the exchange control regulations: (1) Beginning June 1, the control over conversions by banks of foreign currencies into yen would be replaced by control of spot foreign exchange positions. Oversold spot positions would not be allowed for Japanese banks although it was stated that these would be allowed in principle at some time in the fu ture. Banks' interoffice free yen accounts were partially excluded f rom the con- trol over spot foreign exchange positions. (2) Beginning 240 in July 1977, Japanese foreign exchange banks would have greater freedom to extend medium-term and long- term loans in foreign currencies. (3) The control over short-term loans to nonresidents by Japanese foreign exchange banks was abolished on May 27. June 20. MITI announced a liberalization of import procedures. The limit on goods that might be imported without verification by banks was raised from ¥ 308,000 to ¥ 1 million; the limit on the value of goods that might be imported with only the approval of the customs office was raised from ¥ 1 million to ¥ 3 million; MITI approval would no longer be required for contracts for consignment sales; and contracts for Japanese companies to engage in trade between foreign countries also would not require MITI approval, although companies were still required to report to MITI. June 27. The exchange control regulations were fu r ther modified, as follows: (1) Partially convertible deposit accounts of nonresidents were abolished. The proceeds f rom sales of debentures and beneficiary certifi- cates sold within six months f rom the date of validated acquisition, which had been the primary source of credits to these accounts, could be deposited in fully convertible free yen accounts. Current balances on non- residents' deposit accounts would be transferable to free yen accounts. (2) The restrictions on the purchase of foreign securities with maturities of one year or less by Japanese residents were abolished. (3) The ceiling of US$20,000 on the foreign currency deposits that may be held by residents was abolished. (4) The restrictions on the maturity or amount of foreign currency deposits held abroad by Japanese security, insurance, and trans- portation companies were abolished. (5) The acquisi- tion by Japanese residents of real estate abroad which was not being put to direct use had been restricted but this restriction was abolished. (6) The requirement that the Ministry of Finance must approve any purchases of foreign stock under stock-sharing plans for Japanese employees of foreign-affiliated companies was abolished. July 1. MITI established quotas for ten color televi- sion manufac turers for exports to the United States during and after 1977. Exports of color television sets would be limited to 1.75 million annually. September 21. As a measure to reduce the trade sur- plus, the Government announced increased imports of oil (US$300 m i l l ion), nonferrous metals (US$100 mil- l ion ), and uran ium (US$180 million); low cost funds would be made available for the domestic financing of aircraft purchases. September 24. A bilateral trade agreement was con- cluded with the People's Republic of China to regulate the import of Chinese silk products. November 17. The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan instituted two temporary controls on the inflow of short-term capital: (1) public sales of short-term treasury bills were stopped after the November 21 issue, and (2) a reserve requirement of 50 per cent was estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lished with effect from November 22, on increases in free yen deposits above the average level of these accounts in October. December 16. The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan announced further measures to promote imports: (1) A certain amount of emergency imports would be financed by the Export-Import Bank of Japan at prime rate for terms of six months to three years. (The Ministry of Finance would lend foreign exchange to the Export-Import Bank of Japan.) (2) The ceiling on the funds available to the Import Finance Credit System was to be raised by ¥ 270 billion over a three- month period. (3) The Bank of Japan would favor import bills when buying commercial paper and would purchase such bills in amounts in excess of the current bill-purchase ceiling. JAPAN 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar, and Jordan avails itself of wider marg ins. Since February 1975, the exchange rate for the d inar has been ma in ta ined on the basis of JD 0.387 = SDR 1. On December 31, 1977, the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of Jordan for the U.S. do l lar were US$3.18 and US$3.16 per JD 1, and those for s ter l ing were <£ stg. 1.65 and <£ stg. 1.64 per JD I .1 The buy- ing and selling rates quoted by the commercial banks and authorized exchange dealers for these and other currencies must be based on the spot rates quoted by the Cen tral Bank; no fo rwa rd exchange t ran sac t ions take place. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government depa r tmen ts and cer ta in other approved in s t i tu t ion s. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import paymen ts and, w i th in permitted annual limits, for paymen ts for educa- tional expenses of Jo rdan ians s tudy ing abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee compris- ing representatives of the Ministries of Indus t ry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and the Central Bank reviews import policy. In add i t ion, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Egypt must be made in U.S. dollars through clearing accounts under a special bilateral payments arrangement with that coun- try. Payments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except of Jordan ian goods to neighboring Arab countries or up to JD 500, excluding fru i ts and vegetables, to other countries) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an author- ized bank in Jordan or in Jordan dinars f rom a nonresi- dent account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. These accounts must be fed with 1ln addition to U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank maintains official quotations for Belgian f rancs, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 242 approved fund s; the approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers f rom resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jo rdan ians working abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks; balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency; the interest rate is fixed in accord- ance w i th rates prevailing in in terna t ional markets. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i t em s2 from any source, some imports f rom Roman ia, and all imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless cov- ered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting countries (i.e., agricultural products f rom neighboring coun t r ies ), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Minis- try of Indus try and Trade, except for certain i tem s3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of Industry and Trade (whose prior approval is also required for imports of indus t r ial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an indus- tr ial firm) or scrutiny by the appropriate ministry. Importers of tea and certain other goods must obtain a specified m in imum proportion of their requirements f r om Ind ian sources. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange perm it which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer hold- ing an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved ins t i tu t ions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which normally is given for essential imports only. Most imported commodities are subject to an import du ty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. In add i t ion, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the duty-paid va lue is levied on most imports to finance social we lfare and the development of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; some alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages; cigarettes; diesel-engined cars, trucks, and buses; and mili- t a ry un i fo rm s. Cer ta in of these commodities may be imported, how- ever, f rom Arab Common Market countries and f rom countries with which t rade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other ag r icu l tu ral commodities are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fa ts; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; super- phosphates; dry batteries; guns; firecrackers; and wireless transmission and reception appa ra tus other than televisions and radios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwait). With this exception, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' depend- ents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; expenses for education; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.4 No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries, but the prior approval of the Central Bank is required. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for chil- dren under 18). These allowances are granted annua l ly for one or more trips. For fam i ly support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted, once a year; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a month for Kuwait) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remit- tances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in any combination of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered within six months of shipment. Exempt are the proceeds from exports of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries, or up to JD 500 f rom such exports (excluding f ru i ts and vegetables) to other coun- tries. Exporters are not permitted to ma in ta in bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to an authorized bank or, if bankno tes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized exchange JORDAN dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resi- dent in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applica- tions by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trad- ing firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating pur- poses. Current income resulting from nonresident invest- ments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in any convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. After two years, repatriation of the capi- tal is permitted in three equal annual installments in any convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provi- sions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Companies Registration Law provides various bene- fits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresi- dent status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordanian dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by non- residents; maturity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transferable in U.S. dollars at the official rate of exchange. Gold The Central Bank has issued three gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for num isma t ic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Indus t ry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license f rom the Central Bank. Licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1977 March 15. Import duties were removed on some raw materials and some capital goods and were reduced on some others. * All insurance must be taken out in Jo rdan, but exchange is g ran ted for p r em i ums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 5 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a non res ident account or for the rem i t tance abroad of the equivalent in fo r e ign currency. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN May 8. The monthly limit on postal order rem i t tances to Kuwait was raised f rom JD 50 to JD 100 a person. June 25. Jordan's exports to Arab countries were exempted from foreign exchange repa tr ia t ion. July 19. Commercial banks were permitted to sell foreign currencies and coins received from their domestic operations to exchange dealers or to the public without l i m i t. Exchange dealers were allowed to sell any amount of fore ign currency or coins to banks or to the public. September 20. The temporary ban on imports of some poultry products was lifted. 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling. A central rate of KSh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Kenya avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Tanzania shillings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shillings at par; in principle, the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par.1 In transactions with authorized banks, the Central Bank stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U.S. dollars and to supply U.S. dollars in exchange for Kenya shil- lings, at rates based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank deals with the Government and commercial banks, on the basis of the daily closing rates in New York, in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, and, on the basis of their U.S. dollar cross rates, in Burundi francs and Zambian kwacha. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward in sterling and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their con- tracts with exporters and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling in outside markets. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority for approving payments for imports of goods not listed in Import Schedules I-IV with an invoiced value not exceeding K Sh 4,000, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capi- tal payments is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Sup- plies; applications are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before shipment. The government-owned 1A11 deaings in Tanzania and Uganda banknotes are suspended. Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. has a monop- oly over the import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African Community. However, the Com- munity was dissolved, in effect, early in 1977. On August 5, 1977, Kenya decided to treat residents of Tanzania and Uganda on the same basis as other non- residents for exchange control purposes, and thus dis- continued the favorable treatment that had previously been given to trade and exchange transactions with these countries. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than Rho- desia and South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Receipts from countries other than Rhodesia may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Settlements with Rwanda are made through special accounts. All pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remit- tances to South Africa also are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East African Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of coun- tries other than Rhodesia and South Africa with author- ized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any cur- rency (other than Rhodesian and South African cur- rency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa or Rhodesia) may be used for approved domestic expendi- tures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya; 2 the redemption pro- ceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. 2 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Many goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya National Trading Corpora- tion, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are four commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued by the Director of Trade and Supplies through the Central Bank; appli- cations must be submitted before firm orders are placed. Imports of goods on open general license require an exchange allocation license, which is given automatically, and must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules require a specific import license from the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been obtained, for- eign exchange is granted freely for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quotas reflecting past imports for goods in Schedule II. No foreign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. From time to time, exemptions may be granted from the quotas estab- lished under Schedules II and IV and f rom the prohibi- tions of Schedule III. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to pro- vide exchange automatically, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equip- ment when the value is regarded as a contribution toward capital or to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports f rom Tanzania and Uganda, most imports with a pro forma invoice value in excess of KSh 20,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company acting for the Cen- tral Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clear- ance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been received. The buying and confirming commission with respect to imports into Kenya may not exceed 3 per cent of the value of the import. The interest rate on suppliers' credit normally is limited to 11 per cent per annum. 246 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a full scholastic year 3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Cen- tral Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33V3 per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, but in that case are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigration. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted trans- fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate com- panies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is KSh4 ,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and KSh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Africa. Business travelers to Tan- zania and Uganda are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of ten days at a time. There is a pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adults which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance within the pre- ceding two years. Nonresident travelers may take out 8 Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educational support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding re turn tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on re turn, but otherwise the export of Kenya banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restric- tion in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consump- tion in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licens- ing. Most other goods may be exported without licenses. Coffee is exported through the Coffee Marketing Board. All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be col- lected within three months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.4 Exports of manu fac tu red goods to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are eligible for special incentives. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in fore ign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may br ing in freely fo re ign cur- rency notes, except those of Tanzania and Uganda. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited, except that residents re turn ing to Kenya may br ing in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to Rhodesia or South Afr ica are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings f rom salaries, persons leaving Kenya permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each fam i ly unit; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, dur ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All rema in ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of pur- chase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not gen- erally restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain f rom the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and 4 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. Local borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign securities and may not send as a cash gift more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following items from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; gold- smiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bul- lion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Imports of gold jewelry, as Schedule III items, require specific import licenses and foreign exchange is not allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1977 April 29. Limits on local borrowings of foreign and/ or nonresident-controlled corporations engaged in speci- fied industries (e.g., exports and manufac tur ing) were raised to 100 per cent of their "investment" in Kenya, i.e., the total of paid-in capital, unimpaired reserves, and foreign loans. The new ceilings would apply for a max imum period of two years. May 14. The limit on foreign workers' remittances abroad of their earnings was raised from K Sh 3,000 a month to K Sh 4,000 a month. June 17. Import duties were adjusted as part of the Government's three-year reorganization program of the tar iff system. June 30. Kenya withdrew from the East African Community's civil aviation, meteorological, customs and excise, and common fund services. Subsequently, the Community's agencies handling these services were vir- tually dissolved and Kenya established its own agencies in substitution. (The Community's corporations man- aging railways and harbors had earlier ceased their operations.) 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA July 1. Kenya withdrew from the East African Com- munity's post and telecommunication services. July 17. Under the Export Duty Act, 1977, a tax was introduced for exports of coffee and tea at the rate of 15 per cent of the difference between the export value per ton and K Sh 20,000 per ton. Exports effected at a price of K Sh 20,000 a ton or less would not be taxed. August 5. Under Legal Notice No. 217, transactions between Kenyan residents and residents of Tanzania and Uganda were to be treated on the same basis as trans- actions between Kenyan residents and residents of the rest of the world. (Previously, transactions with resi- dents of Tanzania and Uganda were not subjected to Kenya's exchange control regulations.) However, imports originating from Tanzania and Uganda were, as before, to be exempted from preshipment inspection. Exports to Tanzania and Uganda were, as before, to be exempted from strict procedures at the customs. Busi- ness travelers to Tanzania and Uganda were to be issued allowances in travelers checks endorsed "Negotiable in Tanzania and Uganda only" at the rate of K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of ten days at a time. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been estab- lished with the Fund. The exchange rate is maintained around W484 per US$1. On December 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 483.10 and W 484.90, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 4 83 and W485, respectively, per US$1. Exchange certificates valid for 30 days may be issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by residents. In practice, most foreign exchange pro- ceeds are exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates may be changed into equivalent foreign means of pay- ment. Forward exchange transactions may be under- taken by the foreign exchange banks, but only in pre- scribed currencies. Transactions with a maturity of up to one year may be concluded with the Bank of Korea, foreign banks, and other foreign exchange banks. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchan- dise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used in each period. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regu- lates operations in the exchange market and is author- ized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in specified foreign exchange dealings. The trade program for imports financed f rom Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are programmed separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 The 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Bank of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, fares paid for travel by air or ship, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents (including Korean workers abroad) are permitted to hold demand, notice, and time deposit accounts in prescribed currencies with foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline, overseas construction, and some insurance com- panies, as well as enterprises in which foreign capital is invested, may maintain deposit accounts in foreign cur- rencies with foreign exchange banks. Companies regis- tered to operate in the Masan and Iri Free Export Zones also may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zones. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating in the People's Republic of China, Cuba, North Korea, or Viet Nam and for certain imports f rom all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, or pro- hibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or pro- hibited items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. Automatic approval items (on December 31, 1977 these were 561 out of 1,097 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature —CCCN) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not produced domestically and certain raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (484) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Prohibited items (52) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw mate- rials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most types of goods imported by the private sector. These are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of local currency at the time of opening the letter of credit and, for imports not on letters of credit, at the time of applying for import licenses. Advance deposits are retained until the bill of lading is released. Advance deposits for KFX imports range between zero and 100 per cent, according to the nature of the import and the commercial terms of payment (sight letter of credit (sight L /C ), deferred letter of credit (usance L /C ), documents against acceptance ( D / A ), or documents against payment (D / P) te rms ). The customs tariff is a "flexible" tar iff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates admin- istratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1977 had not invoked this authority. A defense sur- charge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items such as banking charges, insur- ance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. In addition, exporters are authorized to use certain exchange earnings for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of US$150 a day or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign cur- rency notes may not be exported without special per- mission. Nonresidents must register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents may acquire up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange per family if they have stayed in Korea for more than two years, and US$2,500 per family in other cases. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to certain specified countries are prohib- ited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cot- 250 ton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be exchanged into equiva- lent foreign exchange certificates. Exporters are not permitted to retain their export proceeds as foreign cur- rency demand or time deposits with foreign exchange banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles, in general, must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be exchanged for equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and divi- dends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 3,011 a gram at the end of 1977. Changes during 1977 January 1. The first phase of the tariff reform aiming at a un i tary tariff rate of 20 per cent by 1981 became effective. At the same time, the system was simplified by reducing the number of tariff positions from 3,996 to 2,521, and the number of rate categories from 17 to 11. January 21. Certain qualified Korean nationals were permitted to hold up to US$3,000 in cash and travelers checks, arising from unused overseas traveling expenses without surrendering it to a foreign exchange bank. Previously, nationals had been allowed to retain up to US$1,000. January 21. The limit on the allowance for traveling expenses was raised to US$200 a day for the Middle ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution East, US$150 a day for other areas, or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses. March 14. The maximum amount of advance export receipts allowed for each company was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the value of its exports during the previous year (it was further reduced to 20 per cent with effect from May 14); the maximum annual interest rate paid on such funds was reduced from the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) plus 1.75 per cent to LIBOR plus 0.75 per cent. April 1. The Kuwaiti dinar, the Bahrain dinar, and the U. A. E. dirham were added to the list of designated currencies. May 12. Interest rates on time deposits in foreign currency were reduced from LIBOR plus 2 per cent to LIBOR plus 1 per cent for deposits with a maturity of more than one year, from LIBOR plus 1.75 per cent to LIBOR plus 0.5 per cent for six months to one year deposits, and from LIBOR plus 1.5 per cent to LIBOR plus 0.25 per cent for three-six month deposits. July 1. The Trade Plan for the second half of 1977 came into effect. Eleven items and nine subitems were transferred from the restricted list to the automatic approval category and two items were shifted from the prohibited list to the automatic approval list. July 1. The advance import deposit rate on luxury goods was reduced from 200 per cent to 150 per cent, the rate on imports for general use was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 70 per cent, and the rate on raw mate- rials for exports was reduced from 15 per cent to 10 per cent. July 1. The Tariff Drawback Special Act was amended to allow a reduction in the tariff rate for imported raw materials when 90 per cent or more would be used for exports. August 8. The categories of persons permitted to use credit cards when traveling overseas were extended; the list of purposes for which credit cards could be used was expanded. August 8. The limit on the amount that could be carried by workers traveling abroad was increased f rom US$300 to US$1,000. For individuals invited to make overseas trips, the ceiling on the amount they could carry was increased from US$200 to US$1,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents who have stayed in Korea for more than two years would be permitted to acquire up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange for each family instead of the previous limit of US$2,500, and those who have stayed less than two years would be permitted to acquire up to US$2,500 in foreign exchange for each family instead of the previous limit of US$1,000. September 8. Nine new items were added to the list of products eligible for import on a short-term credit basis. October 1. The advance import deposit rate on luxury goods was reduced from 150 per cent to 100 per cent KOREA and the rate on imports for general use was reduced from 70 per cent to 40 per cent. October 12. For the remainder of 1977, Korean firms engaged in overseas construction and service projects were required to deposit remittances to Korea in special foreign currency deposits bearing the same interest rate as foreign exchange time deposits. Such accounts would also be used for advance receipts of export proceeds, except in the case of small firms whose advance export deposits amounted to less than US$500,000. Foreign currency deposits would be released at any time for overseas construction purposes and for the repayment of loans. November 1. It was announced that Type 3 foreign exchange loans by branches of foreign banks in Korea to local enterprises for the import of raw materials would no longer be permitted. Such financing would now be available only from Korean banks. November 2. The repayment period for import credits was reduced from 150 to 120 days. Also, the time period allowed for effecting exports after receipt of a prepayment would no longer be extended beyond six months. November 2. Interest rates were reduced on foreign exchange time deposits, usance bills, and import credits. For one-year deposits, interest rates were fixed at LIBOR plus 0.5 per cent, for six-month to one-year deposits, LIBOR plus 0.125 per cent, and for deposits of not more than six months, LIBOR plus 0.0625 per cent. November 2. The Bank of Korea was no longer em- powered to give exemption on required advance import deposits equivalent to the reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits (15 per cent for demand deposits and 10 per cent for savings deposits). November 18. The Trade Plan for the second half of 1977 was adjusted so that 16 items and 43 subitems were transferred from the restricted list to the automatic approval category and one item was shifted from the prohibited list to the automatic approval list. The 1976 import value of the items shifted to the automatic approval category was US$320 million. December 1. The Trade Plan for the first half of 1978 was announced. On the basis of the Standard Inter- national Trade Classification System, 15 import items were shifted from the restricted list and one item was shifted from the prohibited list to the automatic approval category. In addition, numerous subitems were shifted from the restricted list to the automatic approval list. The net liberalization was equivalent to US$862 million in 1976 import value terms. As regards exports, the number of banned items for export was reduced f rom 11 to 9, and the number of items on the restricted list was reduced from 240 to 237, so that the number of automatic approval items increased from 846 to 851. December 1. The import deposit requirement for D /A and usance imports was increased by 10 percentage 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA points. The import deposit requirements were increased as follows: items subject to zero tariffs, f rom 10 per cent to 20 per cent; items subject to less than 20 per cent tariffs, from 20 per cent to 30 per cent; and items subject to tariffs of more than 20 per cent, f rom 40 per cent to 50 per cent. December 14. The Government prohibited overseas branch offices of Korean exporting firms or their over- seas corporations from transferring to Korea foreign exchange prepayments for exports. In addition, local banks were prohibited from providing payment guaran- tees for advance export payments. December 14. Business travelers on overseas trips exceeding 60 days were authorized to carry with them a basic foreign exchange allocation of US$3,000, and the limit on extra overseas traveling expenses for defense industry officials on official business was increased from US$2,000 to US$5,000. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar, corresponding to KD 1 = US$3.37778, and Kuwait avails itself of wider margins. Since March 18, 1975 the exchange rate for the Kuwaiti dinar has been maintained on the basis of its value in terms of a weighted average of currencies. Since March 1976, the U.S. dollar has been the intervention currency. The Central Bank of Kuwait quotes daily buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars; on December 31, 1977, its rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.27991 buying, and KD 0.28027 selling, per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is tra t ion of the Ministry of Communications. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. All imports f rom Israel, includ- ing imports of Israeli manu fac tu re and those that con- tain Israeli materials or are manu fac tu red by companies financed by Israeli capital or by companies ma in ta in ing a relationship with Israeli firms that is deemed beneficial to Israel, are prohibited. All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa also are prohibited. Imports of a few items (mainly oxygen, certain steel pipes, pork or foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, and used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old) are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. There are no limita- tions on the export of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any fo rm, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) are prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammun i t ion, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South African rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except in Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other countries except Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry, however, may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufac tured, are subject to import duty at 4 per cent. Changes during 1977 February 10. The Bank of Kuwait and Bahrain— 50 per cent owned by Bahraini interests and 50 per cent by Kuwaiti institutions —was granted permission to open a branch. This was the first bank with a foreign share- holding allowed to operate in Kuwait since the British Bank of the Middle East was taken over five years ago. June 5. The importation of all types of wireless sys- tems was prohibited, except under license from the Ministry of Communications. September 19. The assets in Kuwait of the American Independent Oil Company were nationalized. October 30. The Government issued a decree-law amending Law No. 32 of 1968, providing that the Kuwaiti dinar would no longer have a fixed gold equiva- lent, that the procedures for fixing the exchange rate of the d inar would be specified by a later decree, and that the requirement of a minimum percentage of gold cover for the dinar was canceled. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System l No par value for the Kip of Liberation2 has been established with the Fund. On December 31, 1977, the official exchange rate of the National Bank of Laos (the central bank) for U.S. dollars was KL 200 = US$1; on that date, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KL 198 and KL202, respectively, per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all exchange transac- tions, except for purchases of foreign exchange from foreign diplomatic missions and international organiza- tions in the Lao People's Democratic Republic which receive an exchange premium of 100 per cent for amounts under US$1,000 and 150 per cent for transac- tions involving US$1,000 or more. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade, which is a subsidi- ary of the National Bank, handles all foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other transactions are handled by the National Bank. All applications for imports have to be approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance. Most foreign trade has been nationalized. Export trans- actions are subject to authorization granted by the Min- istry of Finance. Exchange control is administered by the National Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but in principle the National Bank provides and accepts only U.S. dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Imports and Import Payments Only essential imports are permitted, based on need and the availability of funds. Imports of all other goods are effectively prohibited. No foreign exchange is released for nongovernmental transactions. There is no approved list of imports, but priority is given to agricul- 1 From May 1, 1978, a unitary rate of KL 400 per US$1 is applied to all transactions. aThe kip of liberation replaced the Lao kip on June 15, 1976 at the rate of KL 1 = K 20. tural equipment, Pharmaceuticals, and basic consumer goods of primary necessity. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Gov- ernment's payments in foreign exchange during the fiscal year; for such payments the National Bank makes exchange available at the official rate. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization. The fu ll pro- ceeds from all exports must be surrendered to the National Bank. An official agency, the Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation, is the sole exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic must be surrendered, as must all other receipts f rom invisibles. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold With the exception of the monetary authorities, resi- dents are prohibited from buying or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1977 September 19. The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade announced that with immediate effect exchange pre- miums of 100 per cent and 150 per cent would be given to sales of foreign exchange by foreign diplomatic mis- sions and international organizations for amounts under US$1,000 and over US$1,000, respectively. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. All exchange transactions including those in clearing dollars, take place at the free market rate, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 was LL3.00 per US$1. There also exists a "moving parity" used for the calcu- lation of duties and taxes levied on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currency, particularly customs duties. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements 1 specifying the method or channel of pay- ment may be made through specific accounts denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agri- cultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or du r ing a specified period of the year. The former group includes wheat, which may in principle be imported only by the State, and citrus fruits, apples, olives (excluding canned olives weighing less than 2 kilograms) and peanuts; the latter group of products consists of squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, pears, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and copper elec- tric and telephone wires and cables. All other commodi- ties may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is appli- cable to all imports except gold and banknotes at the following rates: LL 2 per LL 1,000 for import values up to LL 100,000, LL1.5 per LL 1,000 for import values between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per LL 1,000 for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Import surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of sur- charge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres 1 Czechoslovakia, Egypt, and Poland. There are also inoperative payments agreements with Guinea and Romania. 256 a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilo- grams; and 40 piastres a kilogram for vehicles over 2,000 kilograms. The rate of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 per cent and that on alcoholic beverages is LL4 a liter (or LL 145 for a case of whisky containing 12 bottles). Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of rice, as well as of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to North Korea require a license. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or re- ceipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. They have been requested not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents unless this serves to finance foreign trade transactions. Banks' foreign currency credits to residents are subject to deposit requirements, and their net foreign currency positions (claims and liabilities separately) are subject to limitation. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance in respect of for- eign currency deposits of nonresidents. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising f rom noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 per cent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certifi- cate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1977 March 1. Legislation establishing a National Invest- ment Insurance Administration came into effect. Under this legislation, new investments (fore ign and domestic) would be insured against losses arising f rom noncivil risks, including war. April 1. Legislation establishing a "free zone" bank- ing facility came into effect. April 5. Prior import and export licensing require- ments were abolished for a large number of products, both manufactured and agricultural. June 1. Prior import and export licensing require- ments were fur ther simplified. Import licensing require- ments were retained only for certain textile products, sanitary ceramic wares, copper electric and telephone wires and cables, and certain agricultural products; ex- port licensing requirements were retained only for rice and for wheat and its derivatives. LEBANON 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System Lesotho's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. The South African Reserve Bank on December 31, 1977 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R l. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies ex- change controls that are similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Commissioner of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance controls all external currency trans- actions. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax eva- sion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions and insurance agents are issued by the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union w i th Bo- tswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union; imports from countries of the customs union are recorded, how- ever, for statistical purposes. Insofar as Lesotho imports goods direct from countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho, however, reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs entry. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to estab- lished limits, such as the basic exchange allowance for 258 tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969, to manufac tur ing activities approved by a Pioneer Industries Board. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are con- sidered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may transfer R 10,000 outside Lesotho as a settling-in allowance, and those with larger assets may transfer 50 per cent of the total, up to R 30,000 for a fam i ly or R 10,000 for an individual. Any excess must be credited to a Blocked Account although emigrants may use such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a fam i ly or R 10,000 a single person to subscribe to non- resident bonds. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maxi- mum of R 100,000 a fam i ly unit. An emigrant family or a person may export only one automobile, with a maxi- mum value of R 10,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1977 March 31. Three changes were made in the control of transfers of money by emigrants: (1) Whereas an unmarried emigrant previously received a settling-in allowance equal to that of a family unit, the allowance for a single person was reduced to a maximum of R 10,000, and a further R 10,000 might be invested in nonresident bonds. Also, donations received by emi- grants during the three years preceding their date of emigration were excluded from their total assets for the purpose of calculating their settling-in allowance. (2) The free transfer of income derived from an emigrant's blocked assets and /or from a trust fund in Lesotho was limited to a maximum of R 100,000 a fam i ly unit a year. (3) An emigrant family or a person may export only one automobile, with a maximum value of R 10,000, provided the automobile had been purchased at least one year prior to emigration. March 31. Nonresident beneficiaries of Lesotho lega- cies would no longer be able to freely transfer R 20,000 for each beneficiary; instead, legacies would be subject to the restrictions applicable to securities rand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar, and the parity rate for the U.S. dollar is $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There is no exchange control and there are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Orders for the importation of paints, toilet tissues, paper napkins, and kitchen towels are channeled through the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation which must approve such imports. Imports of cement are not being licensed. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. In practice, petroleum is imported only by the Liberian Re f in ing Company. Exports and Export Payments Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms and ammun i t ion and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxa- tion or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monop- oly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year 90 per cent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and ma- chinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protec- tive tariff on competing imported products. The five- year incentive may be renewed for a fu r ther two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1977 April 25. The Government announced measures to control the importation of toilet tissues, paper napkins, and kitchen towels. In fu tu re, orders should be chan- neled through the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation. April 26. The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation announced that paints would be sub- pected to import control. All orders were to be channeled through the Ministry. October 7. As a result of the harmonization of cus- toms duties with Sierra Leone under the Mano River Union, new customs tariff regulations were issued amend- ing the rates of duty payable on almost all items. In general, tariff rates were increased. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 2977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Dinar. The parity for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commer- cial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were LD 0.29531 buying, and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound ster- ling the rates were LD 0.56475 buying, and LD 0.56759 selling, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by the Secretariat of Trade, which also issues import and export licenses; for certain imports the approval of another Secretariat (Interior, Health, or Agriculture and Agrarian Reform) is required. Foreign trade has largely been nationalized (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in convert- ible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permitted under the existing exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earnings of such non- residents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on bal- ances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. For debits on such accounts see sec- tion on Payments for Invisibles, below. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. 260 Funds brought in by nonresident contractors under- taking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank. Pay- ments received by such contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remit- tances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify for remit- tance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments Import transactions are governed by Law No. 64 of 1971, which stipulates that import and export activities for trading purposes shall be confined to Libyan nationals and to Libyan companies whose capital is wholly owned by Libyan nationals. Certain imports may be made under open general license. The import of some items, including alcoholic beverages and narcotics, is pro- hibited. Many imports are effected only by the appro- priate public sector companies and institutions.2 The work of commercial agents, including import agents, for the following goods and services is reserved for specified government agencies and joint stock com- panies: cement, iron, wood, and lime used in construc- tion; concentrated fodder and fertilizers; livestock and meat; financial, banking and air travel services; repair and maintenance of docks; and information, publica- tion, and advertising. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The Government exercises direct control over certain imports from various countries. 2 These include petroleum and petroleum products, motor vehicles, telecommunications equipment, certain electrical equipment and parts, batteries, agricultural machinery, paving machinery and equipment, cinematographic films, prepared fodder, lime, certain insecticides, medical equipment and supplies, Pharmaceuticals, footwear, cotton textiles, threads, soaps, detergents, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, sugar, salt, tea, rice, barley, wheat, flour, coarse legumes, tomato paste, fresh fruit, canned fish, livestock, meat, dried and con- centrated milk, coffee and its products, cocoa, and natural and vege- table fats. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from an insurance company in the Libyan Arab Jama- hiriya is submitted before the letter of credit is estab- lished. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. De- ferred payments (for up to 90 days after customs clear- ance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, including family assistance and gifts. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers abroad to residents undertaking studies abroad, of foreign exchange for maintenance, up to limits prescribed for various countries, plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remittances from nonresi- dent accounts maintained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those workers whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. A nonresident wife or the wife of a non- resident, when employed in the country, are each per- mitted to remit abroad up to 90 per cent of net salary each month. Banks may issue travelers checks and for- eign currency notes to nonresident workers and techni- cians within the limits mentioned. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final depar- ture certain goods, the value of which is not deducted from the balances in their nonresident accounts; a non- resident may also export one automobile during his stay in the country. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority dele- gated to the banks, require prior approval from the Cen- tral Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the country, but are intended for immediate expenses upon return. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of for- eign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Additional amounts may be granted in special circum- stances. During 1977 pilgrims were entitled to a special quota of LD 800 in addition to the basic travel allow- ance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 1,000 a trip, subject to a maximum of LD 2,500 in a calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan dinars. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for commodities which are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of ship- ment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, and maca- roni, which are subsidized commodities, are also pro- hibited. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securi- ties, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlim- ited amounts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic devel- opment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted only 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees and 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be sold only to Libyans, other than in exceptional circumstances. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferab le, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. Residents taking up per- manent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced f rom time to time. Provided that a license is obtained from the Ministry of Economy, goldsmiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Central Bank must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for proc- essing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the Government. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Mada- gascar has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is off ic ia l ly ma in- tained at the rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions between the Central Bank and national banks in French francs ( the in te rven t ion cur- rency) take place at the rates of FMG 50.25 selling, and FMG 49.75 buying, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes seven other currencies.1 Its buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were FMG 234.07 and FMG 236.43, respectively, per US$1. The author- ized banks are not permitted to ma in ta in an exchange position in any foreign currency. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar itself are con- sidered foreign countries, and f inanc ial relations w i th all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury, External Finance Office, which also supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward inves tmen ts, and inward direct investment. Some of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses, inc lud ing those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of Commerce in the M in is try of Econ- omy and Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by the Directorate of External Trade or by other specified public agencies, ma in ly stabilization funds or marketing offices for ag r icu l tu ral products. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized in termed iar ies which may deal w i th the Cen- tral Bank only in the quoted currencies. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonres ident account is the For- eign Account in Malagasy Francs. These accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a l im it of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder, and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompany ing fam i ly member. 1 Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the M in is try of Economy and Commerce before being permitted to engage in import activities. Imports are grouped in to two broad categories: those authorized w i t h in the f r am e- work of the annual import program, and those which are prohibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants, and those open to indus tr ial enter- prises and to other importers who are final users of the product. Import quotas open to merchants increased significantly under the 1977 annual import program, when the prohibited list was expanded to include more nonessential goods (m a in ly textile articles and toys) and luxu ry items. Imports of f r u it ju ices are cond i t ional upon purchases of domestic f ru it juices. The import of certain items, including alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the govern- ment-owned trading firms ( SON AGO, SINPA, and Roso). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before shipment when a documen tary credit is opened ). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For some transactions the approval au tho r i ty has been dele- gated to authorized banks, either up to specified l im i ts or for any amount that is properly documen ted. Resi- dents may obtain an exchange allocation for tour ism equ iva lent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for ch i ldren und er t e n ); any foreign exchange rema in ing a f t er re turn to Mada- gascar must be surrendered. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equ iva lent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a m a x im um of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Authorized banks may not make avail- able foreign banknotes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a tr ip for tourist or business travel. Applications for amoun ts in excess of the basic tourist and business travel allocations, and app l ica t ions for exchange for any other type of travel, must be sub- mitted to the M in is t ry of Finance and P lann ing. Allo- cations for d ifferent types of travel may not be comb ined w i thout the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are basic allocations for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are trans- ferable in fu ll when distributed by indus tr ial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may be t rans fe r red only to nonres ident physical or ju r id ical persons of fo r- 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR eign nationality. The transfer of savings f rom wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Mada- gascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work con- tract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons hav ing their family in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose fam i ly lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for both categories during leave spent outside Mada- gascar); however, the transferab le amount may not ex- ceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remain- ing foreign banknotes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office; these products include coffee, van i l la, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. SONACO has a monopoly over exports of beans. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such proceeds no rma l ly must become due not later than one mon th a f ter arrival of the goods at their destination, unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary and the exporter must sign a comm i tment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents must be repa- triated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. The import of Malagasy banknotes in excess of FMG 5,000 is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and fore ign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over bor- rowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investment in Madagascar,2 and Mala- gasy direct investments abroad,3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Planning (i.e., the Directorate of the Treasury). The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Planning within 20 days following each operation. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the M in is try of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Planning. How- ever, loans contracted by authorized banks or credit ins t i tu t ions with special legal status are exempt f rom approval. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential trea tment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qua l ify ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from this require- ment are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- fac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a fam i ly and num isma t ic items up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt f rom license, are subject to customs 3 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3 Inc lud ing those made through fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in princi- ple, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1977 January 1. The 1977 annual import program came into effect. The prohibited list was expanded to include additional nonessential goods (textiles, knitwear, and babywear; wooden and metallic pieces of furn i ture; toys; some food items, including poultry and fish; and raw materials for quarrying); only one item (thread for spin- ning) was removed from the list. January 1. Import duties on Pharmaceuticals and various medical products were reduced; flour and manioc became exempt from duty. January 29. The Ministry of Finance and P lann ing issued a notice on the codification of financial operations and settlements with foreign countries and on the legal definition of resident and nonresident entities. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Malawi Kwacha. Since June 9, 1975 the currency has been pegged to the SDR, at MK 1 = SDR 0.9487. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate; rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates in the London market. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 1 = US$1.1555, and MK 1 = US$1.1495, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents (other than residents of Rhodesia) may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency 1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries (except Rhodesia) may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries (except Rhodesia) are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha by resi- dents to countries other than Rhodesia, and with trans- fers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi and (2) transfers f rom another Rhodesian External Account. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose; ( 2) payments to the account holder 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 266 while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) transfers to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) trans- fers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism to regulate the impor t, export, distribution, purchase, and sale, and to fix prices, of any goods. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported under an open general license when originating in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT (except Poland). Imports originating in the Republic of China are treated similarly but require an individual license. With respect to other countries (including Po- l a n d ), an import license is required for all commodities except certain items that are free from licensing irrespec- tive of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cine- matographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts under MK 50 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Except with express permission of the exchange con- trol authorities, payments for imports from all countries must be made after the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for formal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any transfer of funds in an t ic ipa t ion of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Pay- ments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. A surtax of 15 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of MK 3 00 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. Annual allowances are not cumu la- tive but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance du r ing the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined m a x im um of MK 2,000 a year for a f am i ly traveling together. The basic exchange a l lowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a t r ip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as edu- cation, medical treatment, and f am i ly remittances. Appli- cations for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their coun try of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equ iva lent of MK 20 in fore ign currency in add i t ion to the ir basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months af ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities 3 are subject to export licensing, ma in ly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of 3 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. MALAWI repayment are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repa- triate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities without prior specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign ex- change which accrues to them. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a fam i ly. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure from Malawi, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Applications for all emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insuff ic ient work ing capital f rom abroad. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1977 January 3. Commercial banks were required to refer to the Reserve Bank all applications for payment for imports and related services. March 19. Import duties were raised on a wide range of commodities, including beer, wine, cordials, cigars, cigarettes, coffee, cheese, automobiles, calculators, toys, sports gear, etc. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Ringgit, and Malaysia avails itself of wider margins. On June 21, 1973 the authorities ceased to ma in ta in the exchange rate within announced margins, and since September 27, 1975 the ringgit has been pegged to a composite of the currencies of Malaysia's major trad ing partners. The closing buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the Malaysian foreign exchange market on December 31, 1977 were M$2.3655 and M$2.3665, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia adm in is ters exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government through- out Malaysia,1 the Governor of the Bank being the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose; no such delegation has been granted for the repayment of foreign loans or the payment of interest on such loans. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the M in is t ry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa must be obtained, within the time of payment specified in the commercial con- tract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia, or in any specified currency. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External 1The three territories of Malaysia are Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Labuan is a free port. 268 Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted subject only to the comple- tion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$ 1,000 and up to M$l million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$l million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly unified as f rom July 1, 1977, although a few restrictions still exist between the terri- tories of Malaysia to give protection to local industries. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the na ture and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel, South Africa, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by any one of these countries are prohibited. Imports from the People's Republic of China are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except for items subject to quantitative restriction. Imports from the German Democratic Republic and North Korea also require specific licenses. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific licens- ing. Imports of primates from all sources are prohibited except under specific license; imports of other live animals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam require a specific license. Movements of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are also subject to specific licensing. Payment for permitted imports is allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the stand- ard rate of tax is 5 per cent ad valorem, but for certain luxury goods it is 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made without restriction af ter exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control fo rms for amounts in excess of M$ 1,000. Unless special permis- sion is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. Nonresident travelers are allowed to take out foreign currency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present ma in ta in separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Malaysian territory. Exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports va lued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more ( for exports to Indonesia, fo rms are not requ i red except where exports are valued at more th an M$100,000). Proceeds f rom exports must be received within the t ime of payment specified in the commercial contract but sub- ject to a max imum period of six months f rom the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malay- sia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exceptional restrictive regulations apply only to transactions with Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r ica. These regu la t ions were t igh tened in November 1977 when an absolute ban was imposed on all exports to South Africa, in l ine with the existing ban on all exports to Israel and Rhodesia. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, form ic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and licenses for these and a few other items (such as fertilizers and pig iron) are administratively denied. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," all commodities used in barter trade, and all exports to the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, North Korea, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Viet Nam. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in principle, similar to those MALAYSIA for export proceeds. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 1,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, per- mission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of invest- ments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000. Malaysian residents require approval for bor- rowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies. Companies in Malaysia controlled by non- residents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, Rho- desia, and South Afr ica. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been materially increased in value by skilled craftsmanship. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trading in gold coins other than the following gold coins of Malaysian currency, M$100 (Tunku Abdul R a hm a n ), M$200 (Third Malaysia P lan ), M$200 ( N i n th South East Asian G am e s ), M$250 (Employees Prov ident F u n d ), M$500 (W i l d l i fe Conserva t ion), and the S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency. Resident and nonres ident travelers, however, may b r ing in or take ou t, on the ir person, one piece each of the M$100 (Tunku Abdul R a hm a n ), M$200 (Third Malaysia P lan ), and M$250 (Employees Provident Fund) gold coins. A traveler may also bring in on his person one M$500 (Wildlife Conservation) gold coin. The export of this M$500 gold coin in any manner is prohibited. The impo rt and export of the M$200 (N i n th South East As ian Games) gold coin, however, is unres tr ic ted. In addition, each trave ler is allowed to br ing in f rom any coun t ry out- side Ma lays ia one S$150 gold coin issued by the Singa- pore Board of Commissioners of Currency, and each traveler may take out one such coin, but only to Singa- pore. Licensed goldsmiths are perm i t ted by the exchange control authorities to purchase cer ta in quan t i t ies of gold f rom an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manu fac tu re of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Permission for imports of gold in any 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is normally not given except for imports by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genuine require- ments of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and orna- ments and for industrial use. Imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Govern- ment. Imports are subject to a 7 per cent import duty and a 5 per cent surtax as well as a sales tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. The sale of gold by domestic producers is subject only to the sales tax, at 5 per cent ad valorem. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations; any export licenses that might be issued for gold or gold coins would require in addition the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1977 July 1. All customs regulations and excise duties (including import and export prohibitions and duty exemptions) in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sara- wak were unified. October 29. The rate of sales tax on imports of gold and sales of gold by domestic producers was reduced from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. November 17. An absolute ban was imposed on all exports to South Africa. December 19. Penang was fu l ly integrated into the Malaysian customs area. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Maldives, the Maldivian Rupee. A fixed official rate is maintained of Mai Rs 3.93 = US$1. There is also a fluctuating exchange rate in a free market conducted by the two commercial banks; on December 31, 1977 this rate was Mai Rs 8.80 = US$1. The official rate is applicable to all transactions of the public sector, and the free market rate to all transactions of the private sector. There is no central bank. U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and certain other foreign cur- rencies circulate freely and may be used for domestic payments. Administration of Control No exchange control legislation has been issued. Exchange and trade controls are administered by the Department of Finance, which also issues import and export licenses. Import and export trade of all essential items is conducted by the State Trading Organization. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currencies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Imports are subject to licensing only if undertaken to match licensed exports of domestic products (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Import licenses, where required, are issued freely. Foreign exchange required to effect payments for licensed and unlicensed imports by the private sector must be obtained in the free market. Most staples (including rice, sugar, wheat flour, and kerosene) are imported at the official rate by the State Trading Organization. 1 Maldives became a member of the International Monetary Fund on January 13, 1978. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may make payments for all current invisibles through the free market. Payments by the public sector are made at the official rate. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign cur- rency, subject only to declaration. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a monopoly over the export of fresh and dried "Maldive fish." Private sector exports of all other domestic products require licenses. These are not normally withheld, but exporters are required to import equivalent commodities within a specified period. However, export proceeds are freely disposable through the free market. Re-exports are exempt from both export licensing and the requirement of matching the transaction with fu ture imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the free market. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency, subject only to declaration. Capital Residents as well as nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the free market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval, and the acquisition of land by non- citizens is prohibited. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold do not require licenses. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate for the currency of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 = 0.01 French franc. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. Ex- change rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Mali itself, are considered foreign countries. The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the repa- triation of export proceeds. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements.1 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. 1Mali maintains bilateral accounts with People's Republic of China, Egypt, Hungary, Morocco, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. The payments arrangements with Hungary and Morocco are inoperative. 272 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports origi- nating in a country of the West African Economic Com- munity and some imports from EEC countries of basic necessities require only an import certificate. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, and im- ports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. A license is valid for six months, but, in case of need, may be extended for a further three months. Imports from the Republic of China, Israel, Korea, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the convertible area (defined as comprising all other coun- tries, including the French Franc Area). Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne d'Import-Export (SoMmx) is the most important, having a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 All imports f rom and exports to countries that have pay- ments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX. The Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the import of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), which may be 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution taken up on several occasions during the year; any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 500,000 a trip.3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon pre- sentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hou rs ). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 200,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes or banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds including those from France and other Operations Account coun- tries must be repatriated and surrendered within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports to countries outside the West African Economic Community require individual licenses; those to coun- tries of the West African Economic Community require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and that of meat and hides and skins for the Societe Malienne du Betail, des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC) ; in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and individuals. The marketing of cereals is the responsibility of OP AM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. MALI Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under an Investment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, pro- viding for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1977 May 3. The Malian and the French Governments concluded a new monetary agreement aimed at estab- lishing financial equilibrium as a prerequisite to Mali's membership of the West African Monetary Union. The agreement provided for the introduction in Mali of banking legislation similar to that already prevailing in member states of the Union. It also called for a progres- sive reduction in Mali's budget deficit and its elimination by 1981 and for reductions in the interest charged on Mali's obligations under the Operations Account, includ- ing the abolition of interest of MF 16 billion of drought- related debt. June 11. Ordinance No. 77-39/CMLN codified exist- ing exchange regulations and made some changes. In- cluded among these was a provision that the Central Bank would in fu tu re be responsible for the repatriation of export proceeds which would cover not only proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries, but also exports to France and the Operations Account countries. June 27. Decree No. 99/PG-RM codified existing trade regulations and abolished the EXIC procedure whereby exporters were permitted to retain 75 per cent of the proceeds of traditional exports for effecting import payments. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta Pound. In December 1971 a central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per Malta pound was established, corresponding at the time to «£M 0.3744112 = US$1, or <£ M 0.406504 = SDR 1, and Malta avails itself of wider margins. However, since July 8, 1972 the Malta pound has been pegged to a basket of currencies. The Central Bank of Malta quotes daily rates for deutsche mark, Italian lire, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars based on developments in the principal exchange marke ts abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (m idd le ra te) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1977 was £stg.!32.48 per <£M 100, and its basic rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.5344 per <£M 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance, Customs, and People's Financial Investments; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the M in is try of Trade. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange has, in many cases, been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign cu r rency ;l the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Malta pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may ma in- tain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to non- residents, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign cur- rency (including bankno tes ), and with Malta banknotes mailed from outside Malta. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). Authorized dealers may also freely open and maintain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign cur- rency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a nonresident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Malta pound. 274 They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other foreign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Blocked Accounts in Malta pounds are maintained for Maltese nationals who emigrate (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are subject to specific licensing. Imports of certain commodities are either prohibited or restricted. Imports other than those that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be made freely under open general license. Imports subject to state trading include sugar, evaporated and condensed milk, cereals, and cement. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the cus- toms entry form, are submitted to the intermediary bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval authority for most types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. There is a standard exchange allocation for tour- ist travel of the equivalent of <£ M 250 a person a trip, and a business travel allowance of <£M250 a trip or < £M 30 a day (for up to 30 days a t r ip ), whichever is the larger. Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them. In addi- tion, travelers may take with them out of Malta, £M 25 in Malta notes and coins. There is also an allowance for educational expenses abroad of £M3,000 a person for an academic year.2 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied that no illicit capital out- flow is involved. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires Central Bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, provided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Maintenance remittances to beneficiaries abroad are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 80 items 2 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that may be exported freely, all other exports are subject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in Malta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over receipts, although re- ceipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,3 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Appli- cations for the acquisition of property for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold prop- erty in Malta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign invest- ments up to the equivalent of <£M500 a person a cal- endar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta in excess of the £ M 500 limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emi- grate may transfer abroad up to £M 7,500 for each family; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 19 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and to acquire jewelry but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The import of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufac- 8 For the purpose of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of resi- dence or of business outside Malta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, and whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. MALTA tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are per- mitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1977 January 3. The regulations for granting loans and overdraft facilities to nonresidents were amended. In future, up to 5 per cent of the approved overdraft limit or <£M 3,000, whichever was lower, might be used each year, at the lending bank's discretion, for items of a capital nature. January 18. Certain paper manufactures, adding ma- chine and calculator paper rolls, gummed k ra ft paper in rolls, kitchen towels, and telex paper rolls were added to the list of goods requiring an import license. January 19. The licensing control, mainly for sta- tistical purposes, imposed on imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam was discontinued. An import license for goods originating from these countries would be required only in respect of products subject to a license when imported from any country. February 14. The conditions under which authorized dealers might give and renew guarantees, indemnities, and commitments for nonresident-controlled, locally registered corporations, without prior reference to the Central Bank of Malta, were relaxed. Authorized dealers might now give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided that fu ll cover was held in deposits in Malta pounds for the period of the guarantee. February 18. Importation of meat, including poultry and rabbits, was prohibited, unless chilled, frozen, or processed. March 15. The following items were added to the list of goods requiring an import license: (1) belts, purses, and wallets of leather or plastic, and (2) alien keys, chisels, files, hammers, pliers, rasps, and screwdrivers. July 1. The list of goods requiring an import license was extended by the addition of mineral water, domestic type battery chargers, blocks and slabs of travertine marble, soldering irons, guns, and wrenches, and box spanners. August 19. Blockboard, chipboard, hardboard, ply- wood, and veneers were added to the list of goods requiring an import license. September 16. Die-pressed embossment machines and metal ladders were added to the list of goods requiring an import license. October 25. Vehicle engines over 2,150 cubic centi- meters were added to the list of goods requiring an import license. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Ouguiya, which is defined as equivalent to 0.016 gram of fine gold. Since May 2, 1977 the ouguiya has been pegged to a trade-weighted basket of seven currencies (deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and U.S. dollars). The Central Bank of Mauritania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and 16 other currencies.1 The exchange rate on December 31, 1977 was UM 45.71 buying, and UM 46.40 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be cred- ited with domestic banknotes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment without Central Bank approval, but payments to and withdrawals f rom these accounts may not be made in foreign banknotes without special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Imports from all countries require an import license. Only holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, CFA francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 276 The National Import-Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions must be domiciled with an author- ized bank, except in the case of imports "without pay- ment." After the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank only authorizes the payment of import bills quot- ing f.o.b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance Company (SMAR ). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten ). There are special arrangements for travel to neigh- boring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to family status. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds UM 5,000. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require an export license and the approval of the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not nor- mally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, exports of cattle of SONICOB, and exports of iron ore and copper concentrates of SNIM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in M au r i t an i a2 and Maur i tan ian direct investments abroad,3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has a period of 15 days f rom receipt of the declaration during which it may request the postponement of the projects. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign a Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. :1 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in te rmed ia t ion of fore ign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauri- tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. MAURITANIA investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Law No. 76-251 of October 16, 1976) provides for various benefits for private invest- ments in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Central Bank and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1977 May 2. A trade-weighted basket of seven currencies (deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and U.S. dol- lars) replaced the previous basket of five equally weighted currencies. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Maur i t ian Rupee. The central rate is M a uRs 7.713759 = SDR 1, and Mauritius avails itself of wider mar- gins. The pound sterling is the intervention currency. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling and in other foreign currencies l at rates based on London market rates for these currencies. On December 31, 1977, the rates of the Bank of Mauritius for sterling were Mau Rs 12.1166 buying, and Mau Rs 12.16 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on the same date were Mau Rs 12.053 buying, and Mau Rs 12.193 selling, per £ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 6.32 buying, and Mau Rs 6.45 selling, per US$1 (for transactions in excess of US$12,000). A different effective rate results from the application of a stamp duty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital transfers other than transfers of banking funds and to payments for gold coins and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in tu rn delegated to the commercial banks. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry is respon- sible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes Maur i t ius dis- tinguishes between Sterling Area countries 2 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 2 The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius define the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. 278 Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts which may be opened by per- sons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling Area ,2 may be credited with ( 1) authorized payments by resi- dents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for (1) payments from residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with ( 1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; ( 2) payments f rom Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities of the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to residents of Maur i t ius; ( 2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from invest- ments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds f rom Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such invest- ments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry is required, regard- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling Area (see footnote 2), but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries with it exchange control authority to make the corre- sponding import payments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to an advance import deposit requirement. Deposits equivalent to 35 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports have to be made in the case of imports financed by means of a letter of credit, at the time of the opening of the letter of credit; or in any other case, at the time at which an order for importation is made or an agreement to import is reached. The maturity of the deposit is three months. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equiva- lent of <£ stg. 400 a person a year for travel to any country except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 35 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of f am i ly support, salary remittances by non -Mau r i t ian na t iona ls, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, pub- lishing rights, advertising outside Maur i t ius, royalties, professonal and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the stand- ard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out M auR s350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mau r i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax r a n g i ng f rom 6 per MAURITIUS cent to 13.5 per cent is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export- import companies to re ta in export proceeds for a reason- able period of t ime to meet paymen ts for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward t rans fe rs of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Maur i t ius may transfer a reason- able amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area (see footnote 2) on payment of a 35.70 per cent s tamp du ty (a du ty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent the reon ); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also t ran s fer a reasonable amount of capital to External Account Area countries on pay- ment of the stamp du ty. Nonresidents require permission to t rans fer capital to any coun try; t ran s fe rs are subject to the payment of s tamp du ty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a coun try outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Ster- l ing Area country concerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely t rans fer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for repa tr ia t ion of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or af ter that date. Proceeds f rom the sale, l iqu ida t ion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of s tamp du ty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 f rom their Mau r i t ian assets when em igra t ing to any country except Rhodesia; this fac i l i ty is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Maur i t ius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the em igra t ion facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for num isma t ic purposes (includ- ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and M a uRs 1,000) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1977 March 4. An import deposit scheme was introduced. Under this scheme, importers of certain nonessential commodities were required to make an advance deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of their imports. The deposit would have a maturity of three months. April 14. The amount of the compulsory import deposit was reduced from 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports to 35 per cent retroactive to March 4. August 12. The importation of used motor vehicles was prohibited. November 28. The importation of motor vehicles, motorcycles, refrigerators (including freezers), and tele- vision sets was made subject to import licensing. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0589330 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso. Since September 1, 1976 the exchange rate has not been maintained within announced margins. On December 31, 1977 the closing rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$22.72 buy- ing, and Mex$22.73 selling, per US$1. Banks may freely engage in exchange transactions between the peso and any other currency. An exchange cover scheme is. avail- able for selected transactions; it is operated by the Bank of Mexico along the lines of a swap arrangement. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Jn accordance with payments agreements with Iran and Yugoslavia, payments for direct commercial transac- tions and related expenses with those countries handled through the Mexican banking system may, with the prior authorization of the Bank of Mexico, be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Bolivia, Bra- zil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts main- tained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Similar arrange- ments exist for payments between Mexico and the Dominican Republic and between Mexico and Cuba. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon- duras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in U.S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal credit agreement between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For some goods, irrespective of origin, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses may be subject to quantitative restriction. For specified com- modities, "open end" import licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited importation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Ministry of Com- merce with the aid of committees composed of import- ers, producers, and consumers. Import licenses for certain goods, including leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and automobiles and their spare parts, are subject to an overall annual limit. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the Ministry of Commerce are required (such as unas- sembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and television sets, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 6 per cent of the value of the import trans- action, the proceeds of which are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of exports.. For a small number of luxury items, no licenses are granted. Imports by offi- cial Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by IMCE af ter screening by the Institute's Import Commit- tee of the Public Sector (CISP); this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available at a price differential of 15-20 per cent. Vir- tually all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund established with the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on prop- erty of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange con- trol requirements apply to export proceeds. Rebates of indirect taxes by means of a system of CEDIS (certifi- cados de devolucion de impuestos) are granted on ex- ports of certain manufactured and semimanufactured products (and of certain services). Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electric- ity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, rail- roads, and telecommunications, are reserved to govern- ment investment. Investment in a number of activities is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or cor- 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO porations (rad io and television, the public transpor ta t ion system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Gove rnmen t ), while new investments in other sectors must have a ma jo r i ty participation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the Na t ional Foreign Investment Register in the M in is try of Commerce. Applications by foreign na tu ral or jur id ical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the appropriate minis- try, a f ter the Na t ional Foreign Investment Commission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered w i th in 30 days with the Na t ional Foreign Investors Registry. Borrowing abroad (or w i th in Mexico in foreign cu r rency) by the public sector and by state- owned banks is subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrowing abroad by pri- va te banks is subject to certain requirements imposed by the Bank of Mexico; these banks are perm i t ted to accept foreign currency denominated deposits f rom resi- dents as well as nonresidents. Only investment banks are allowed to accept time deposits in U.S. dollars. On March 22, 1977 the net yield on such deposits was fixed at 1 percentage point above the corresponding Eurodol- lar rate in London. Gold Domestic transac t ions in nonmone ta ry gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or m anu f a c- turers effected through authorized Mex ican credit insti- tutions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. The Bank of Mexico does not buy or sell gold in transac t ions with private banks, individuals, or firms. There is a 15 per cent tax on sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold unde r tak ing not to sell it at prices exceeding in terna t ional quotations plus normal marke t ing costs are eligible for an automatic subsidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mexico to private banks or to gold- smiths or manu fac tu re rs in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by the Bank of Mexico. Imports of gold are subject to import license f rom the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1977 March 22. Net yields on U.S. dollar-denominated time deposits were pegged at 1 percentage point above the London Eurodollar rates for deposits of comparable maturities. March 22. Only investment banks were allowed to accept U.S. dollar-denominated time deposits. The 282 m in imum amounts of such deposits remained at US$2,000 for banks in the border zone and US$8,000 for banks located elsewhere. April 1. A Ministry of Commerce decree reinstated rebates of indirect taxes and import duties (CEDIs) to exporters of manufac tures. April 1. The import licensing requirement was elimi- nated for 400 tar iff items. May. Subsidies of up to 40 per cent of import duties were granted to imports of machinery and equip- ment by medium-sized enterprises that produce "socially and na t iona l ly necessary goods." August 1. The legal reserve requirement on U.S. dol- lar-denom ina ted savings deposits was raised f rom 30 per cent to 75 per cent. August 30. A rediscount facility was introduced on a limited basis to secure for Mexican borrowers credit in pesos against compensatory foreign deposits; the facility would provide the borrower with the equivalent of a for- eign exchange guarantee. Within the scheme, the Mexi- can borrower would open a U.S. dollar t ime deposit in a bank (wh ich, in tu rn, would deposit the fu ll amount w i th the Bank of Mexico) and obtain credit in pesos for an equ iva lent amount. The m in imum size of the deposit was fixed at US$100,000 w i th ma tu r i ty ranges of six months to five years. September. An alternative version of the August 30 rediscount fac i l i ty was introduced in the fo rm of swap transactions between the borrower, the intermediating bank, and the Bank of Mexico. October 14. A swap agreement for US$100 million was signed w i th the Bank of Spain. October. Foreign companies were to be allowed ma jo r i ty participation in jo int ventures with Mexican interests if they exported the bulk of their output and increased employment opportunities. December 2. A trade agreement with reciprocal trade concessions was signed with the United States. December 3. The swap agreement for US$360 mil- lion w i th the U.S. Federal Reserve System was extended un t il December 2, 1978. December 28. It was announced that the import licensing requirement would be eliminated with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1978, for 1,920 ta r i ff items; some 3,700 items would still require import licenses but 2,376 of these would be freed f rom restrictions in 1978 and 1979, December 28. The swap agreement for US$300 mil- lion between the U.S. Treasury and the Bank of Mexico was renewed until December 31, 1979. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco quotes daily buying and selling rates for the French franc; its rates for the f ranc are determined in the light of quotations for certain major currencies on the exchange market in Paris and taking into account the geographic distribu- tion of Morocco's foreign trade transactions. The Bank of Morocco also quotes buying and selling rates for spe- cified "convertible currencies," l based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad and the Bank of Morocco's daily quotation for the French franc. In addition, the Bank quotes daily buying and selling rates for the Tunisian dinar. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were DH 4.3149 buying, and DH 4.3390 selling, per US$1 and those for the French f ranc were DH 0.91828 buying, and DH 0.92104 selling, per F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must purchase f rom or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their pur- chases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, the "convertible currencies," and specified other currencies; 2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replen- ish them at the Bank when necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Foreign currency repatriated in the fo rm of transfers to a bank or postal account by Moroccan workers abroad is eligible for a premium of 5 per cent payable on the dirham equivalent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certifi- cates and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Finnish markkaa, Iranian rials, Kuwa i ti d ina rs, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, and U.A.E. d irhams. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco. Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt f rom taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc- tion between the French Franc Area and the area of convertibility, Morocco applies exchange control also to transactions with the former.3 Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area coun- tries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements;4 and (3) all other countries, the "area of convertibility." Settlements with the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria, how- ever, are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks, and all settle- ments with Tunisia are made through accounts denomi- nated in convertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made through the payments agreement accounts. Imports originating in countries in the area of converti- bility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.5 Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency in the names of residents of countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements w i th residents of countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports (and 3 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 4 Gu inea, Mali, and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Mali is inopera- tive. 5 Until f u r t h er notice, special regulations apply to payments for imports of Egyptian origin; 40 per cent of such payments must be e f fec ted th rough the account established under the terminated bilateral paymen ts agreement and 60 per cent in "convertible currencies." 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO related invisibles) from those countries.6 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for pur- chases from the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies." Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ); they are used only for settlements w i th these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. These include the proceeds f rom the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan securities and proceeds from the contractual or acceler- ated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries either in the area of convertibility or the French Franc Area, or the same country in the payments agreement group, are per- mitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives dur ing visits to Morocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a limit of DH 5,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require indi- vidual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only cer- tain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. 6 Imports from the French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for with French francs purchased f rom the Bank of Morocco. 284 Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories and applicable to all countries, with the exception of Rhodesia from which all imports are prohibited. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are sub- ject to state trad ing; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB items). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement d importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported f rom a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,7 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods con- cerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled within 15 days f rom the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with quotas estab- lished in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial trans- action covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on non- resident-owned shares of Moroccan companies having their ma in office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to 7 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco,8 except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. Subject to a monthly limit of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricul- tural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the mining sector are authorized to transfer between 60 and 80 per cent of their monthly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make peri- odic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own for- eign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel by persons other than exporters a standard allowance of DH 250 a day is granted, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceil- ing fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters may obtain up to DH 300 a day, up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, within a ceiling of 3 per cent of the for- eign exchange repatriated during the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroc- can students pursuing higher studies abroad may obtain monthly allocations of foreign exchange up to DH 1,000 for students in higher education who do not hold scholar- ships, and of DH 1,500 for doctoral students who do not hold scholarships. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,000 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance, fixed at DH 2,000. For family maintenance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allocation generally of DH 300. The export of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et 8 For all wages and salaries of the private sector, from August 1977 monthly transfers which exceed by more than DH 150 the amount transferred in June 1977 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. (Previously, the authorized excess amount was DH 100.) MOROCCO d'Exportation —OCE) which is also in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; this date must not be set, in prin- ciple, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom current transactions, and only when they accrue in for- eign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies within one month of re-entry, but are per- mitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the currencies so purchased may also include French f r an c s ); they are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the dirham equivalent of any foreign exchange repatriated in the form of transfers to a bank or a postal account. The importation of Moroc- can banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of foreign currency brought in in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be sur- rendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittances in respect of the assets of emigrants and transfers of gifts are not normally approved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Transfers of assets by persons re turn ing to their own country vary with the length of their stay in Morocco, f rom DH 35,000 a fam i ly with fam i ly resi- dence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a fam i ly where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit f rom the provisions of the Invest- 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It guaran- tees the transfer of dividends distributed to nonresidents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see below) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds f rom the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become transferable after a m in imum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit from the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds from the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or of participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 du r ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; any such payments from an account held by a foreign jur id i- cal person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institu- tions; subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term securities with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, within the framework of the 1973 Invest- ment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment under taken by the nonresident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Balances held in "original" Capital Accounts by non- resident persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding DH 10,000 on May 31, 1975 have been declared trans- ferable abroad as follows, subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Exchange Office: balances not exceeding DH 3,000, dur ing 1976; those between DH 3,001 and DH 7,000, dur ing the first half of 1977; and those between DH 7,001 and DH 10,000, during the second half of 1977. Certain government bonds acquired with funds f rom Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. These are 5.5 per cent, seven-year bonds on which interest and redemption proceeds are transferable. 286 All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept con- vertible currency funds from nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tur i ty period; the rate of interest paid by banks on deposits received must not exceed that received by them on the placing made for their account. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250 has been issued, which is legal tender. Resi- dents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num isma t ic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Every year the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the impor- tation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Gold jewelry is included in import list C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1977 January. Notice to Importers No. 01-77 was pub- lished containing the General Import Program for 1977. Commodities listed under 18 tariff headings or sub- headings were shifted f rom the liberalized category (List A) to the restricted category (List B) that required licensing. However, no quota limits were set for the items moved to List B, and it was provided that they would be licensed in accordance with need. The items included organical chemical products, paper pulp, cer- tain electric cables, and motorcycles and bicycles im- ported in completely knocked-down condition. August 20. Following the imposition by the EEC of restrictions on imports of certain textiles f rom Morocco, commodities included under Chapters 50-62 of the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature (mainly textiles and textile fibers) were shifted f rom the unrestricted category (List A) to the licensed category (List B ). November 15. The annual exchange allocation for installation expenses for the benefit of Moroccan stu- dents abroad was raised f rom DH 1,000 to DH 2,000. The allocation for students in higher education who do not hold scholarships was raised from DH 834 a month to DH 1,000 a month; for doctoral students not holding scholarships the allocation was raised from DH 834 to DH 1,500 a month; for scholarship students, the allo- cation (in addition to the scholarship) was raised to DH 1,000 a quarter f rom DH 600 a quarter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0808408 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee. On Feb rua ry 20, 1973 a cen t ral ra te was established of NRs 12.7390 = SDR 1, correspond- ing at the time to NRs 10.56 = US$1, and Nepal avails itself of wider margins. Since October 9, 1975, how- ever, the Nepal Ra s t ra Bank ( the c en t r al b a n k) has maintained fixed buy ing and selling rates for U.S. dol- lars of NRs 12.45 buying, and NRs 12.55 selling, per US$1. The Bank also quotes fixed rates for the Ind ian rupee, at NRs 139.00 buy ing, and NRs 139.15 selling, per 100 Ind ian rupees. Buy ing and selling ra tes are quoted da i ly for Aus tra l ian dollars, C an ad i an dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss f rancs and only buy ing rates are quoted for Aus t r ian schillings, I ta l ian lire, and Swedish kroner. D i f fe rent effec t ive exchange rates arise f rom the opera t ion of an Exporters' Exchange En t i t lement Scheme.1 Most of Nepal's fore ign exchange t ransac t ions are in terms of Ind ian rupees. Residents may free ly purchase Ind ian rupees f rom Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Ind i an notes and coins, but the Ind ian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, cons is t ing of repre- sentatives f rom the Nepal Ras tra Bank and the M in is- tries of Finance, Foreign A f f a i r s, and Indus t ry and Commerce, prepares an annu al fo re ign exchange budget for fore ign currencies other than the Ind ian rupee and excluding transactions with the countries with which clearing a r r ang em en ts exist .2 Perm iss ion is requ i red f rom the M in i s t ry of Finance for all fore ign paymen ts, except for certain specified paymen ts that requ i re authorization f rom the Nepal Ras t ra Bank. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the M in is t ry of Indus try and Commerce. All exchange t ransac t ions with coun tr ies other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the 1 In Ma rch 1978 a n um b er of impo r t ant changes took place in the exchange sys tem. On Ma rch 22, 1978 Nepal changed its exchange ra te for the U.S. do l lar to NRs 11.90 b u y i n g, and NRs 12.10 selling, per US$1; the ra tes for the I n d i an r u p ee we re also changed to NRs 145.00 b u y i n g, and NRs 145.15 se l l ing, per 100 I n d i an rup e e s. On Ma rch 31, 1978 the Expo r t e r s' E x c h a n ge E n t i t l em e nt Scheme and the p ropo r- t i o n a l i ty r e q u i r em e nt on im p o r ts we re abo l ished and rep laced by a du al e x c h a n ge ra te sy s tem. A ll t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th Ind ia and a ll t rans- fe rs, inv is ib les, and cap i tal t r an s a c t ions w i th coun t r i es o ther than I n d i a, except c e r t a in debt service p a ym e n ts on f o r e i gn c r e d i ts associated w i th me rchand i se t r a d e, a re t r a n s a c t ed at the ex is t ing exchange ra tes. A fixed dep rec ia ted second r a te of NRs 15.90 b u y i n g, and NRs 16.10 selling, per US$1 app l ies to a ll m e r c h a n d i se t r a de w i th coun t r i es o ther t h an I n d i a, except for ex emp t ed impo rt i tems (e.g., pe t ro leum p roduc t s, coal, f e r t i l i z e r, raw co t ton, co t ton y a r n, i n d u s t r i al chem ica ls, con- s t ruc t ion m a t e r i a l s, and m a c h i n e r y ); it also covers the debt service p aym en ts m e n t i o n ed above. 2 Nepal has b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts a g r e em e n ts w i th B u l g a r i a, People's Republic of China, Poland, and U.S.S.R.; paymen ts between Nepal and these countries must be made t h r o u gh special accoun ts. An agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. Rastriya Banijya Bank. Within Nepal there are 105 add i t ional authorized dealers licensed to purchase for- eign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Ras tra Bank. All import and export transactions w i th payments agreement countries, as well as all barter trade, are conducted through a state trading agency, the Na t ional Trading Ltd. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Paymen ts to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union except India (Bangladesh, Bu rma, I ran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of cu r rent transactions (other than those re la t ing to petro- leum, na tu ral gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union. Payments for imports f rom Ind ia norma l ly are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Ras tra Bank sometimes makes convertible cur- rencies available for such imports at the recommenda- tion of the M in is try of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely t rans fe r red abroad. Ind ian na t iona ls are allowed to open current accounts in Ind ian rupees w i th Nepalese banks. Foreign curren- cies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited w i th a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Ras tra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in India require import licenses. Imports of vegetable oil, mar- garine, animal fa t, beef, woolen carpets, arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explo- sives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may in principle be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation and cer- t a in others are subject to export ceilings in I n d i a ); reim- bursement of tax is made by the Government of India 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of commodities subject to excise duty in India. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; any application must, however, be in accordance with the annu al foreign exchange budget.3 Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low); the entitlements are transferable and may be used by other holders.4 Many imports payable in convertible currencies and most government imports are effected through state trading agencies, mainly the National Trading Ltd. and the Agricultural Input Corporation. All imports settled through the banking system must be made on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for accounts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisi- bles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Ind ian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Ind ian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresi- dents may take out the unchanged amount of any for- 3 Impo rt licenses are not norma l ly issued to the private sector except against exporters' exchange entitlements, unless the goods involved are raw materials and machinery to be imported by industrial firms for their own use. 4 The G o v e r nm e nt operated a special import l icens ing p rog ram for one month from November 26, 1977. Convertible currency in an amount of NRs 100 million was made available to cover the costs of the scheme. Importers could apply for licenses subject to the follow- ing stipulations: The licenses were not transferable or renewable, im- ports f rom India were prohibited, a special fee of 55.4 per cent of the value of the import was levied when the license application was sub- mitted, the goods were to be imported in the same proportion as under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme, and the goods should reach Nepal's border within six months f rom the date of issue of the license. The program was discontinued on December 25, 1977. 288 eign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows and buffaloes, and rhinoceros horn are prohibited. There is also a tem- porary prohibition on exports of oilseeds and edible oils. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-exports to any destination of goods imported from Ind ia are prohibited.5 All other goods, except rice, may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations require export licenses. Eight regional Rice Export Corporations have a monopoly over exports of rice. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buy ing rate of exchange, w i th in six months of shipment. The exporter receives f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporter's exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro- portion of his eligible export proceeds in foreign cur- rencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the M in is try of Industry and Commerce. An export valuation committee deter- m ines for each commodity the max imum unit value which can appear on an application for an exporter's exchange entitlement. Unit values are defined on a c.i.f. basis; a marg in of 15 per cent above the un it value fixed by the committee is permitted to allow for price va r ia t ion in ind iv idual contracts. Foreign exchange surrendered in excess of earnings calculated on this basis is not eligible for an exporter's exchange entitle- men t. En t i t lemen ts are negotiable. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade (i.e., the National Trad ing Ltd. when selling to countries with which Nepal m a i n t a i ns payments agreements) are granted entitle- men ts corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earn ings; in principle, 40 per cent of these earnings may be used for imports of their choice from the partner coun try wh i le the rema in ing 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities f rom the partner country. For virtually all exports to convertible currency coun- tries, exchange entitlements are granted at ratios of 45 per cent or 60 per cent. At least 10 per cent of the en t i t lement must be used to purchase items on a list of development goods, up to 70 per cent may be used to purchase consumer goods, other than specified luxury i tems, and up to 20 per cent may be spent on any type of goods including luxuries. 5 Und er the Trade and Transit Treaty with Ind ia, prohibitions also apply to (1) the export to India of manufac tured products containing materials imported f rom countries other than India in excess of 50 per cent of the ex-factory value, and (2) the export to countries other than Ind ia of manu fac tu red products containing materials imported f rom India exceeding 50 per cent of the ex-factory value. (Under the Treaty similar provisions also apply to India.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Ind ian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a minimum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Ind ian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any fore ign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital rem i t- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited f rom mak ing any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include investments abroad by any bank- ing or f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Indus tr ial Enterprise Act, 1974 provides cer ta in incentives for foreign investment in Nepal. Foreign investors who obtain an inves tment guaran tee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange s i tua t ion permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Nepal. No import licenses for gold are issued under the Exporters' Exchange En t i t lement Scheme. Imports of gold f rom any coun t ry other than NEPAL India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the mone tary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 10 per cent. Changes during 1977 January 26. Export duties on 179 items were abol- ished. Import duties were reduced by 10 per cent to 50 per cent on a large number of consumer goods. May 29. Restrictions were imposed on the export of clarified bu t ter from the Lumbini zone. July 4. Import duties were increased from the exist- ing 1 per cent ad valorem rate to 10 per cent on goods imported under the recommendation of the Tourist Department and the Department of Industry. August 8. An export valuation committee was estab- lished to ascertain world market prices for exported commodities. Export earnings surrendered in excess of the earnings calculated on this basis were not eligible for export bonuses. However, a marg in of 15 per cent above the prices fixed by the committee was permitted to allow for fluctuations in individual contracts. September 13. The permissible categories of imported goods for export entitlement holders were expanded to inc lude w r i t ing paper, exercise booklets, toilet paper, tissue paper, hardboard, and other goods as specified by the Government from time to time. November 26. The Government made available con- vertible currency equivalent to NRs 100 million for imports under a special import licensing program. Applications for these special import licenses were accepted un t il December 25, 1977. The licenses were issued w i th the following stipulations: the licenses were not transferable or renewable, imports f rom India were prohibited, a special fee of 55.4 per cent of the import value was charged when applying for the license, goods must be imported in the same proportion as under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme, and the imports should reach Nepal's border within six months f rom the date of issue of the import license. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder. On September 17, 1973, the Netherlands established a central rate of f. 3.35507 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.264874 gram of fine gold per Netherlands guilder. The Netherlands avails itself of wider margins. A max imum margin of 2.25 per cent is maintained for exchange rates in the official market between the Netherlands guilder and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche ma rk, the Luxembourg franc, and the Norwegian krone. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies.1 The authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1977 were f. 2.27875 and f. 2.28125 respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including non- resident guilder accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange con- tracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an under ly ing transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions with other residents, inc lud ing authorized banks, and they may conclude forward trans- actions w i th authorized banks 2 for any period. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and are permitted to hold accounts in the ir own names with banks abroad; overdrafts on the latter accounts normally are not allowed in excess of f. 300,000 a year. The Kingdom of the Netherlands forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions w i th the Netherlands An t i l les are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries with which paymen ts agreements might be in force, the Ne the r lands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ne ther lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i rs, Finance, Economic Affa irs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Impor t- Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under 1 The currencies quoted in the Amsterdam market include Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 As f rom January 1, 1978, the intermediation of authorized banks is no longer obligatory in those forward currency transactions in which the guilder is not involved. 290 directives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank; transit trade transactions in strategic goods and scrap are licensed by the CDIU.3 Commercial banks are authorized to handle exchange transactions w i th in the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. For all current payments to, or receipts from, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, and for all capital payments or receipts, nonbank residents as well as nonauthorized banks have to indicate, by submitting an exchange con- trol f o rm, the na tu re of the unde r ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no t r an s f er of money is involved. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts f rom them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. If such payments are made f rom, or are received in, the Netherlands they must use the intermediation of authorized banks or of other domestic institutions or persons designated by the Netherlands Bank. Residents are free, however, to open and ma in ta in bank accounts abroad, to which receipts may be credited and payments debited; in that case, they must notify the Netherlands Bank, and receipts and payments are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. There are specific regulations for payments in respect of certain direct imports from Egypt.4 All payments and credits, whether direct or indirect, f rom the Netherlands to Rhodesia are prohibited unless a license is granted by the Netherlands Bank. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to open and keep nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, to effect payments to, or collect receipts f rom, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. A number of capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license f rom the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital below). Nonresident accounts held by residents of Rhodesia are of two k ind s: R Accounts for payments w i th in the 3 The only transit t rade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, w i th in the EEC, of scrap. Transit t rade (me rchan t ing) involving Rhodesia is prohibited. 4 F i f ty per cent of these paymen ts are used to settle Ne the r lands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Netherlands, some of which are permitted under general license, and Special Accounts through which external payments must be made, subject to special licenses (which are granted only for the exceptional cases re- ferred to in the relevant UN Resolution). Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. Virtually all im- ports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly in the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors, when not of EEC origin. Except for imports from Rhodesia, prac- tically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports f rom Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Commodi- ties corresponding to a small number of tar iff headings or subheadings are subject to quantitative restriction when originating in Japan. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the relative exchange control regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities, but they require prior approval f rom the Netherlands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those that are customary in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling ex- penses abroad as well as for purchases for which pay- ment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amorti- zation due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unu t i l ized documents of value for travel purposes as well as fore ign and Nether- lands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by draw ing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mos t ly of a strategic char- NETHERLANDS acter, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amounts in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Most external capital transactions either enjoy blanket freedom or are permitted by general license. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are (1) financial borrowing from nonresidents exceeding f. 300,000 a year; (2) the issue of interest-bearing domestic securities, and the sale of such unlisted securities, to nonresidents; (3) lending to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; and (4) the acquisition of unlisted foreign securities bearing interest in guilders. At the end of 1977, borrowing abroad by nonbank residents continued to be restricted for reasons of mone- tary, credit, and exchange rate policy, while capital exports continued to be liberally permitted. In general, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment in listed securities or the purchase of real estate, see below) is permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct investment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of companies, direct invest- ment is considered to include intercompany financial loans with a fixed term of at least five years from the foreign parent company. Under certain conditions, loans f rom other affiliated foreign companies are also being licensed. Other financial borrowing —whether through issues of bonds and notes abroad or through borrowing f rom foreign banks —is, in principle, not allowed unless the proceeds are kept abroad and used for investments abroad (which are considered to include purchases of ships and a ircraf t). However, companies working on the Netherlands' part of the Continental Shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are allowed to take up foreign bank loans (with a fixed term of at least five years) up to two thirds of their financing requirements. Resident units of international companies are free to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad for the purpose of intercompany settlements; changes in the accounts are to be reported to the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the relative regulations. Short-term foreign bank 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS credit for the financing of imports is licensed (when there is no domestic credit restriction in force) if it is directly connected w i th a specific import transaction; for long-term financing, importers are referred to the domes- tic credit market. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Netherlands treasury paper and bank accept- ances denominated in guilders are prohibited. Lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is free up to f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident; larger amounts are normally permitted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance w i th the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market (the market for debt certificates or onderhandse leningen), institutional investors are liberally permitted to extend loans to nonresidents. The max imum size of each loan is set at f. 75 million and the m in imum largest ma tu r i ty at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal installments. The lenders are to deliver in foreign currency. A queue system w i th an issue calendar for nonresident borrowers is used to ensure an orderly market. Participation by residents in the capital of companies abroad is free. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments is free. Repay- ment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any re levant s t ipu la t ions in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are free. However, residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euro- market denominated in guilders and issued by non- residents. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad only if the proceeds are not brought into the Netherlands (see above). The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents (except Rhodesians) are transferable in any currency, irrespec- tive of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Non- residents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payments within the framework of such transactions is also freely permitted. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.5 Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic 5 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 292 currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresi- dents inheriting f rom estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. The curtailment of external borrowing is also applied to the authorized banks. Any net foreign indebtedness on their part is restricted by the "five million regulation," which prescribes that the total of each bank's spot foreign liabilities (regardless of denomination or ma tur i ty) must not at any time exceed its total spot foreign assets by more than f. 5 million. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank twice a month the totals of their spot assets and liabilities, broken down into guilders and all foreign currencies combined. In addition, banks are encouraged to maintain a balanced total position (i.e., spot plus forward position) in each foreign currency. They are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresidents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents are forwarded to the Nether- lands Bank. Banks are free to lend to foreign banks and, for maturities up to one year, to foreign nonbanks; longer-term lending is permitted under general license. Banks are free to pay customary rates of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, and to estab- lish guilder time or savings deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents. Thus, their freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents (including foreign currency demand or time deposits) and to borrow abroad is unre- stricted, provided the limit set by the "five million regu- lation" is observed. All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whether free or permitted under license, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepayments exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transac t ions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Authorized banks must report their own investments and loans as well as monthly totals of foreign exchange dealings and deposit transactions. Gold Certain prewar gold coins are legal tender but do not. circulate. The Netherlands Bank engages in gold trans- actions only with monetary authorities and international financial institutions. Neither the bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold ( f ine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value- added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medal- lions and commemorative coins is 18 per cent. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1977 January 1. The private placement market was re- opened with effect from January 3, subject to the follow- ing conditions: The maximum size of each loan was set at f. 75 million and the m in imum largest ma tur i ty at ten years, with repayment to take place in at least five equal installments. Lenders would be required to deliver in foreign currency. A calendar of issues would be established to maintain orderly market conditions. September 1. The form of the exchange control regu- lations was considerably simplified through superimposi- tion of a "positive" system on the Exchange Control Decree of 1945 (which, in principle, made all external payments subject to permission). By ministerial order exemption was granted from all prohibitions contained in the Decree, unless explicitly stated otherwise in special exchange control orders or notices. Consequently the existing implementing regulations and permissions were revoked; at the same time new regulations were published ma in ta in ing the existing s i tua t ion. These regulations were embodied in the fo l low ing orders and notices: (1) An exchange control order designed to permit continued control over transit trade in strategic goods in conformity with international obligations. (2) An exchange control order stipulating that the export of certain valuable paintings and other works of NETHERLANDS art would continue to be conditional upon permission of the Minister of Cultural Affairs, Recreation and Social Work. (3) An exchange control notice under which certain forms of capital exports, such as the placing of foreign issues in the Netherlands, remained subject to permission so as to allow regulation of the domestic capital market. (4) An exchange control notice under which capital inflows on account of borrowing, as well as some other transactions remained subject to permission so as to enable the authorities to counter undesirable upward pressures on the guilder's exchange rate. The ceiling on such inflows would be raised to f. 300,000 per year per resident. (5) An exchange control notice stipulating that residents should, in principle, continue to effect their in te rna t ional payments through authorized banks in the Netherlands so as to facilitate an overall view of the payments situation which would be helpful to the deter- mination of exchange control policy. Rules in respect of the reporting of payments transactions and other settlements —for balance of payments statistics —were contained in a separate exchange control instruction. (6) An exchange control notice containing formal regulations on the concept of residential status. (7) An exchange control notice under which the Netherlands Bank maintained the authority to prevent takeovers, by foreign banks, of banks established in the Netherlands. September 1. The prohibition on the acquisition by authorized banks and exchange dealers of Italian bank- notes of high denomination was not continued under the new exchange control regulations. October 12. A ceiling of f. 900 million was agreed upon for the total amount of Euroguilder notes to be licensed for placements (by residents and nonresidents) in the international private placement market during 1978. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder.1 The gold con tent of the currency has been established at 0.411543 gram of fine gold. The central rate is Ant. f. 1.7900 per US$1, and the Netherlands Antilles avails itself of wider marg ins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at An t. f. 1.79 buying, and Ant. f. 1.81 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of 0.8 per cent on sales of exchange, mak ing the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.8245 per US$1.2 The offi- cial buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals w i th commercial banks at interbank rates. It does not normally deal with the public. Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances,3 but authorized banks have been granted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Depart- ment of Economic A f fa i rs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The central bank may grant an exemption f rom the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired f rom nonresidents as principals; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until fu r ther notice. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Neth- erlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in fore ign exchange as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonres ident accoun ts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents ( i n c l u d i ng for- eign investment funds, etc., w i th nonres ident s ta tu s) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Ne ther lands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned 1 In the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maa r ten, the Ne ther- lands Antilles guilder and the U.S. dollar c ircu la te concurren t ly. 2 Foreign exchange purchased by resident companies with nonres ident status for exchange control purposes is exempt f rom the exchange tax. 3 All currencies other than the Ne ther lands Antilles gu i lder are con- sidered foreign currencies. 294 considers that they have certain interests in the Nether- lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed Ant. f. 10,000 w i thout central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for reasons of public policy. Imports of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs, while commercial imports of pas- senger automobiles built prior to the production year November 1, 1975-October 31, 1976 are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies w i th nonresident status normally finance the ir imports w i th their own fore ign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required mainly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of Ant. f. 180 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 5,000 for each transaction or in excess of An t. f. 25,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any fore ign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usua l ly granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an author- ized bank w i th in six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies w i th nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must in principle be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coins, since the domestic cur- rency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travel- ers may b r ing with them checks, travelers checks, or bankno tes in fore ign currency in un l im i ted amounts. Each traveler may also br ing in An t. f. 200 in Nether- lands Antilles banknotes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides fpr duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies pri- marily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the com- pany concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to companies concerned with investment, patent holding, shipping, and insurance. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts in foreign currency between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position, but outward transfers of capital by life insurance companies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domestic currency are freely permitted in any amount by virtue of general per- missions granted to individual foreign insurers. Invest- ment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is freely allowed by a general permission; purchases of mutual f u nd shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad f rom nonresidents ( inc lud ing residents with non- resident s ta tus), or accept foreign currency deposits NETHERLANDS ANTILLES from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons and banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Nether- lands Antilles guilders. Local borrowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (including resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold A commemorative gold coin of Ant. f. 200 is legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1977 January 1. Special import duties of 30 per cent on automobiles and similar duties on other luxury items were removed. August 20. In order to protect the local paper bag factory established in Curasao, prohibition duties were levied on imported printed and unprinted grocery bags, notion and millinery bags, and plastic bags. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar, corresponding to $NZ 0.892857 = SDR 1, and New Zealand avails itself of wider margins. Since July 9, 1973 no announced margins have been observed but at December 30, 1977, ruling exchange rates corresponded to a rate of $NZ 1.1912 per SDR 1. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand adjusts the New Zea- land dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate daily so as to main- tain the effective relationship between the New Zealand dollar and the currencies of its main trading partners. Except for the Australian dollar, the rates for spot trans- actions in currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in either London or New York. The rate for the pound sterling is derived by crossing the U.S.-London rate quoted in New York with the New Zealand-U.S. rate. The outer limits for the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1977 were US$1.0247 and US$1.0147, respectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts for up to 12 months to cover both import and export transactions but can do so only within ten banking days of the exchange risk arising. Cover is not available for goods imported on consignment and nonresidents are not per- mitted to obtain forward exchange cover. Forward transactions in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling take place at rates of exchange determined daily by the Reserve Bank and based on the closing forward quota- tions in the overseas market of the previous day. For- ward exchange contracts in U.S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates adjusted by US$0.0050 a month on that rate. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New York foreign exchange markets, against sterling or U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discre- tionary authority to the trading banks to approve appli- cations for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regu- lations governing foreign direct investment in New Zea- land. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. 296 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from accounts denominated in New Zealand currency held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia, also is an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("con- trolled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dol- lars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts which would other- wise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the annual Schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers virtually all primary products (other than whea t ), most raw materials and components of a type not produced in New Zealand (e.g., base chemicals and fertilizers), and a range of consumer goods and machinery. Goods in this category are exempt from licensing, as are, in addition, certain imports of Austra- lian origin, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 On a value basis, more than 70 per cent of all private imports are exempt from licens- ing. The "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual value of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this cate- gory include tires, paper products, and a range of mate- rials for use in manufacture. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, including most manufac- tures, e.g., machinery and appliances, aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price; for some "C" items, however, there is an initial allocation until July of each year, based on a previous period, while applications for fur ther licenses are considered individually. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to special arrangements. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of impor- tation for certain regularly required goods in the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. In order to assure continuity of imports of specific items (mainly raw materials and consumer goods), in 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on January 1, 1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the 1974/75 program, the Government undertook that over a three-year period importers would receive licenses at least equal in value to the basic allocation for 1974/75. All licenses issued may be used for imports f rom any source except Rhodesia. Imports from Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign A f fa i rs. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a com- posite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special cir- cumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. An import deposit scheme, introduced on February 2, 1976, was extended to February 2, 1978.3 In 1977 about 5 per cent of total imports was covered. Importers were required to pay a deposit of one third of the value of their proposed imports. The deposit was held by the Reserve Bank for six months and was repaid without interest. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a maximum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12- month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above allo- cations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign cur- rencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign funds. A 10 per cent travel tax is payable on all tickets supplied in New Zealand for overseas travel, except for travel to 3 The scheme was terminated with effect from February 2, 1978. NEW ZEALAND certain Pacific islands. This tax is administered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal authentication; for dividends and interest, the approval authority up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one recipient has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval, and new commitments such as royalty agreements with over- seas licensors, or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank, and, for companies, of the Overseas Investment Commission. Remittances abroad on account of maintenance and/ or gifts by recognized New Zealand religious and chari- table organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to limitation. Remittances for religious and charitable purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 5,000 in any one year for each remitter, and applications for larger amounts are con- sidered on their merits. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia, for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name, provided that no individual remittance exceeds $NZ 20. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 50 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ5. Up to $NZ4 of the permitted total may be in coin. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid until 1982 are issued to regular exporters. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when particular requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Temporary restrictions have been imposed on exports of tallow and specified types of mutton. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to annual quantitative restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub- mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain condi- tions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND manufacture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the differ- ence between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported materials and /or components used in manufacture by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 the foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income f rom other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins, provided that any New Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zea- land and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. While overseas borrow- ing by financial institutions is controlled, consents are usually granted where the funds are required for indus- trial development purposes. To be eligible for repatria- tion, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, a f ter the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not norma l ly permitted un t il the expiry of the term for which the funds were borrowed and in any case not within 12 months of the receipt of the proceeds unless an approved repayment schedule specifying otherwise has been agreed to. Overseas companies seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow- 4 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or w i th any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whe ther actual or con t ingen t ); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing wo rk or the per- formance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 298 ing by such companies also requires prior approval. Forward exchange facilities are available to cover bor- rowings abroad by New Zealand companies in cases where the borrowings relate to specific approved proj- ects to develop industries based on the extraction or processing of indigenous raw materials. Any such for- ward exchange cover would be for the amount of the capital sum only and is normally limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 million for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies which are 50 per cent or more overseas owned is normally restricted to 10 per cent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings f rom overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or com- panies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's voting capital. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer their entire assets to their new country of residence. Appli- cations for the remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in fu l l. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of over- seas securities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Government stock on the London register purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred f rom the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zea- land resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas cur- rency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documen ts of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. These securities may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zea- land through the banking system or reinvested in other overseas securities within three months. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively, but the importation of gold coins is exempt from license. Changes during 1977 March 31. The Import Licensing Schedule for 19777 78 effective July 1 was again fixed at the same value as the previous year. Thus, the volume of imported goods in 1977/78 was expected to be considerably less than in the preceding period owing to the rise in import prices. Severaritems were shifted f rom the basic licensing cate- NEW ZEALAND gory to the "C" category, for which applications for licensing are considered on an individual basis. May 13. The Custom Prohibition (Textiles) Order of 1977 was introduced prohibiting the importation of second-hand clothing, blankets, rugs, and flock except with the consent of the Minister of Customs. July 1. Virtually all the remaining Commonwealth tar iff preferences on U.K. exports to New Zealand were eliminated. July 21. It was announced that the Export Guarantee Office would introduce an additional scheme, providing a 100 per cent guarantee (compared with the normal cover of 85 per cent) to trading banks which lend for export transactions secured by promissory notes or bills of exchange that have payment terms between 30 days and one year. July 29. The import deposit scheme due to expire on August 2, 1977 was extended for a fu r ther six months to February 2, 1978. October 28. It was announced that the Government intended to extend the export suspensory loan scheme and the new markets' development grant scheme. The range of exports of services and processed products qualifying for existing tax incentives was also extended. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.105237 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba. The parity for the U.S. dollar is C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals with the commercial banks in U.S. dollars, the interven- tion currency, at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals w i th the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convert- ible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compensation through the Clearing House in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month. Imports and Import Payments All commercial and industrial importers are required to be registered. There are two broad categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Unregistered indi- viduals may import for their own personal consumption. Commercial and industrial imports from all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be regis- tered w i th the Central Bank by means of import declara- tions. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods, industrial mate- 300 rials, and other essential goods; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permis- sion is at present limited mainly to industrial and agri- cultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw mate- rials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank or that acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports f rom member countries of the Central American Com- mon Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Nicaragua grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to a 6 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes- tically produced, and there is an additional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the National Welfare Board. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur- rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur- chased from a bank, with the exception stated in foot- note 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy may fix minimum export prices or temporar- ily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign cur- rency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely. Foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privi- NICARAGUA leges, provided that the foreign currency is converted in the bank ing system: repatriation of the registered capi- tal; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for invest- ment. Commercial banks and private investment com- panies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authoriza- tion. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967 and commemorative gold and silver coins were issued in 1975. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de FAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, subject to a commission f rom which transactions for the account of the public Treasury and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempt; the commission is 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union and 2.50 per mill for transfers to such coun- tries. Transfers among the member countries of the Union are subject to a standard commission of CFAF 100 a t ran s fe r. Exchange rates for fore ign cur- rencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. A fixed exchange rate is applied in certain transactions with Nigeria. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger i tse l f, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Ex ternal Finance Bureau in the M in is try of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of fore ign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is author- ized to collect, either direct or through the in termed iary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is t ra- tion, and notaries public, any in fo rm a t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance l fThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 302 Bureau in the Ministry of Finance, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are first approved by the External Finance Bureau. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone normally are made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in foreign currencies or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Some set- tlements with Nigeria are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign cor- respondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. The import f rom any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, bu tane gas, many types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior au thor iza t ion, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except f rom member coun- tries of the Common Organization of African and Mau r i t ian States, and to imports of matches. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports f rom other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EEC, many goods f rom other former OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non- EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual pro- gram determined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import trans- actions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Nigerien border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Bureau when the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Bureau, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling on tourist trips to coun- tries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a per- son a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ), which may be taken up twice a year; any fore ign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing af ter return to Niger must be surrendered w i th in eight days by sale to an authorized bank. The transfer of salaries of foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Bureau and is normally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries, in addition to their travel allo- cation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes bu t, when t rave l ing to a French Franc Area country outside the West A f r ican Mone tary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Non- NIGER resident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no decla- ration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Com- merce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payments for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is denominated in a non-Franc Area currency, surrendered by sale on the exchange market, within two months af ter the due date. All export transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Residents must surren- der w i th in eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations in securities require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securi- ties whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has pre- viously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities in Niger, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provi- sions listed in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the payments or collections connected with them. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in N ig e r4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request the postponement of the projects. The full or partial liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct or not, also requires prior decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires 8 Including those made through the intermediation of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. * Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 304 prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the "normal" market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing con- stituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authoriza- tion only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968, as amended. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code have been main- tained. The new Investment Code provides for privi- leged or regular treatment. The latter provides assur- ances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within speci- fied categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nigeria is the Naira. On April 17, 1963 an initial par value of 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian pound was established. On February 14, 1973 a central rate of 1.11973 grams of fine gold per naira was established, corresponding at the time to N 0.793648 = SDR1 or N 0.657893 = US$1. Since April 1, 1974, however, Nigeria has ceased to observe any specified margins and has pursued an independent exchange rate policy. The intervention currency of the Central Bank of Nigeria is the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal with authorized dealers and the public in U.S. dollars, sterling, and those currencies in which it holds accounts abroad; such dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only.1 The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar are set at 0.25 per cent on either side of the middle rate, and those for sterling are determined on the basis of the prevailing U.S. dollar rate and the previous day's U.S. dollar-sterling middle rate quoted in London. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any for- eign currency except Rhodesian currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly f rom out- 1 While the Central Bank both buys and sells U.S. dollars and sterling, it is prepared only to buy those other currencies for which it quotes daily rates. side Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for impor ts); the granting of "approved status" to non- resident investments in Nigeria (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and insurance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are cen- tralized with the Central Bank. The Central Bank sup- plies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Minis- tries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Devel- opment as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria National Oil Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to countries other than Rho- desia may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for na ira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the Cen- tral Bank of West African States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mali, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts are in three categories, External Ac- counts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for residents of all countries other than Rhodesia. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with payments f rom other External Accounts, and with pro- ceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies other than Rho- desian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are fed with funds derived f rom local sources. They may be credited with proceeds f rom services rendered locally provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained f rom the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports f rom Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a ), Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited, and the import f rom any country of certain specified commodities is banned to protect local indus- tries, reduce importation of luxury goods, or for hea l th, safety, moral, and religious reasons. The import of a few other commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions set out in the license authorizing such imports have been complied with. Individual import licenses are required for a small number of items f rom all sources, including raw or manu fac tu red tobacco, certain types of paper, passenger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters and various alcoholic beverages. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Nam ib ia, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Some imports are effected exclusively by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company Ltd. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance w i th such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector, or the Minis- try of Finance for the public sector). Payment in ad- vance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. For sight transactions, the importer must pre- sent the customs b i ll of entry w i th in 90 days af ter the allocation of foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to speci- fied limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as 306 profits and dividends) 2 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of N 500 a person a year (N 250 a year for chil- dren under 16). There is a travel allowance for pil- grimages, which for 1977 was the same as the tourist allocation. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destina- t ion, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian cur- rency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered f rom the basic travel allowance. Busi- ness travel allowances are limited to N 80 a day, up to 15 days a trip, for a maximum of 60 days in a fiscal year. Allocations are available for medical care and s tudy abroad; foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide educational expenses. Exchange applications for most non tour ist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may pur- chase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remit- tances (including insurance, education, medical expenses, provident f u nd contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel a l lowance); applications in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When tak ing overseas leave, foreign nationals may also convert up to three months' pay in to foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in fore ign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coins; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Nam ib ia, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Also, exports of beans, cassava, groundnut oil, maize, palm oil, rice, and timber are prohibited, as are exports of explosives, other than industrial explo- 2 Profits and dividend payments remitted abroad and disbursed locally may not exceed 30 per cent of a company's capital stock. New prof i ts and dividends may be remitted as soon as they are de- clared. Remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and management fees requ ire approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is nor- mally permitted for the first five years after the establishment of a new company, and thereafter a percentage of gross profit not exceeding 5 per cent. Each application is treated on its merits within these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other service payments, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sives. Exports of cattle and groundnu ts have been sus- pended. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tan ta l i te, un re f ined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to con- trol by Marketing Boards (cocoa, co t ton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm kernel oil, and palm ke rne ls ). The selling abroad of all export crops purchased by the Marketing Boards is the respon- sibility of each Marketing Board under the general guidance of the Export Commodity Coord ina t ing Coun- cil. The export of certain goods (A f r i c an an t iques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special a r rangemen ts. All other goods may be exported w i thout a license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a com- mercial bank, to the Central Bank w i th in three mon ths of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, however, are exempt f rom the surrender require- ments. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the t ime of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fo re ign currenc ies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, for su r render to the Central Bank. Persons en ter ing Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. Travelers may br ing in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nige- rian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or ex- ports, permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for any ind iv idua l, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any fore ign borrowing. The taking up of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is sub- ject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The per- mission of the Ministry of Finance is required for bor- rowing in Nigeria ( 1) by any nonresident ind iv idual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nige- ria (other than a b a n k) which is controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short- ages of fund s, licensed banks in Nigeria may g rant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or ove rd ra ft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit fac i l i ty to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in fore ign currency securities nor may they buy f rom or sell to nonresidents NIGERIA of Nigeria any security payable in na ira without the permission of the M in is try of Finance. The capital pro- ceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through au thor ized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance is obtained. Rem i t tances of cash g i f ts to nonresidents norma l ly are restricted to the equivalent in any one fiscal year of N 1,000 for each transferor in favor of charitable orga- n iza t ions outside Nigeria, and of N 300 for each trans- fe ror for g i f ts to ind iv idua ls. Exchange for the t rans fer of cer ta in assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final depar ture f rom the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply w i th the N ige r ian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for fore ign capital participation in the equ i ty capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and Janua ry 1977. Nonresidents in tend ing to make direct investments in Nigeria are in- vited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration w i ll be given to fu tu re requests to repa- triate the capital. The gran t ing of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this fo rms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this s ta tus is not no rma l ly granted when in terna l ly generated f u n ds f rom profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. With m inor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incor- porated in N iger ia. The repatriation of fore ign capital requires approval f rom the M in is t ry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Commissioner for Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the mone ta ry authorities, producers of gold, and author- ized indus t r ial users are not allowed, w i thout special per- mission, to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Impo r ts and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require specific licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Furthermore, the import of U.K. gold coins requires a license f rom the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coins requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bul- lion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Changes during 1977 January 1. The import of coin-operated gaming machines was banned. January 3. The import of certain electronic equip- ment was made subject to specific licensing. January 13. A new Indigenization Decree (N iger ian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1977) was promulgated. Nigerian equity participation in foreign enterprises was increased by moving specified industries into categories requiring a higher proportion of Nigerian equity. The time schedule within which companies have to comply with existing indigenization requirements was also accelerated. February 17. The import of champagne and other sparkling wines was prohibited. April 1. Under the 1977/78 budget proposals, import restrictions were increased. To protect local industries f rom foreign competition and to reduce imports of luxury goods, the list of prohibited imports was extended to include carbon paper, Evian water, beer bottles, lace, and automobiles with an engine capacity above 2,500 cubic centimeters; and the import of a number of other commodities (such as canned beer and soft d r ink s ), was placed under specific import license. Import duties on textiles, finished clothing, certain rubber tires, and other commodities were increased, while duties on some grains, yarns, fibers, and other raw materials were reduced. September. Administrative controls on advance pay- ments for imported machinery and equipment were tightened. October 1. The basic tourist travel allowance was reduced f rom N 1,000 to N 500 a person a year. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone. Norway avails itself of wider margins. Margins of 2.25 per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Norwegian krone and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, and the Netherlands guilder; the intervention rates of the Bank of Norway for these currencies correspond to a central rate of NKr 7.53212 = SDR 1. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies. On Decem- ber 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates of the author- ized banks for the U.S. dollar were NKr 5.1285 and NKr 5.1505, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transactions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation w i th the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro- hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or trans it trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Ac- counts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries, subject to the proviso that without special permission from the Bank of Norway the total balance held by a nonbank nonresident must not exceed NKr 100,000. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, w i th transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with pro- ceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments f rom any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes, irrespective of the country of origin. With this exception, industrial goods may be imported freely f rom the import free list area l upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural products are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for imports of industrial goods from specified countries —one applicable to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other to Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricul- tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regu- lations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equipment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecom- munications. The import of a small number of com- modities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equip- ment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceu- tical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity w i th the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country except Rhodesia for all cur- rent invisibles, including income from capital and con- tractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 2,000. 1 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Re- public, Hunga ry, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2 Automatic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, North Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a t r ip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any coun try except Rhodesia, against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt f rom declaration or export license; for fish and fish products this limit is NKr 500. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, hum an i t a r i an, or educational purposes. Payments must be received w i th in 12 months of ship- ment and in conform i ty with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts f rom invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denom ina t ions not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of paymen t. Capital Inward t rans fe rs of capital and inves tmen ts in No rway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for ou tward transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted free ly, and nonresident capital may be repatriated au toma t ica l ly. Payments for contractual amortization are also permit- ted freely. Most transactions in securities involving non- resident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and pur- chased by nonresidents f rom residents by special permission may be resold to residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds f rom the sale. The purchase of shares of Norweg ian b a n k i ng and industrial firms by nonresidents is licensed restric- tively on a case-by-case basis. Personal capital transfers, such as t rans fe rs relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emi- grants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of imm igran ts' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital 310 t rans fe rs to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the excep- tion of securities issued by fore ign investment companies or mu tu al f u n d s, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities or ig ina l ly were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon appli- cation t rans fer capital abroad to purchase, for recrea- tional purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 150,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business firms, staff asso- ciations, etc., are approved liberally, also for higher amoun ts. There are l im i ts on commercial banks' borrowing abroad. According to guidelines issued on August 6, 1976, each ind iv idual bank may borrow funds or accept deposits in fore ign currency f rom fore ign banks within a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above the average of its total foreign borrowing at the end of each month of 1975. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before ra is ing loans, accepting other forms of capital, or in cu r r ing or providing guar- an tee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Norway. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and indus tr ial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on impo r ts or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1977 January 1. A number of tropical products was added to the list of imports subject to du ty-free t rea tment under Norway's Generalized System of Preferences. January 1. Under the terms of the f ree trade agree- ment with the EEC, import duties were reduced on most indus tr ial goods originating in the original EEC member states and in Ireland. Further du ty reductions became effective on Ju ly 1. February 1. Roman ia was included as a beneficiary under Norway's Generalized System of Preferences. February 2. The ceiling for government guarantees in respect of ordinary export credits was raised from NKr 7 billion to NKr 12 billion. The corresponding ceiling for the special arrangement covering exports to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY and investment in developing countries was raised f rom NKr 2 billion to NKr 4 billion. April 5. The intervention rates in Norwegian kroner for currencies participating in the European common margins arrangement, with the exception of the Danish krone, were changed. The new rates corresponded to a central rate of NKr 7.15551 = SDR 1, representing a depreciation of 3 per cent. May 1. The list of beneficiaries under Norway's Gen- eralized System of Preferences was extended to include Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe. July 18. Certain textile products imported from EEC and EFTA countries other than Portugal were exempted from the import license requirement. August 29. The intervention rates in Norwegian kroner for currencies participating in the European common margins arrangemen t, w i th the exception of the Danish krone, were changed. The new rates cor- responded to a central rate of NKr 7.53212 = SDR 1, representing a depreciation of 5 per cent. September 1. Certain imports from Korea were excluded f rom Norway's Generalized System of Prefer- ences. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On July 4, 1974, Oman established an initial par value of 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Rial Omani, cor- responding at the time to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar, while the commercial banks' rates for other curren- cies are based on market rates in London. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the official buying rate for the U.S. dollar was RO 1 = US$0.34505 and the official selling rate was RO 1 = US$0.34574. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rho- desia also is prohibited. No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for pay- ments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janu- ary 1977. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1977 January 25. Under an amendment to the foreign investment law, new local companies established with foreign participation were required to hold a minimum paid-up capital of RO 150,000 (previously RO 25,000). The amendment also provided that Omani nationals must hold a minimum share of 35 per cent of the paid-up capital. April 4. The Central Bank decreed that all banks locally incorporated in Oman must have a 51 per cent Omani shareholding. May 9. The Commercial Agencies Law provided that ( 1) all companies engaging in agency type business must be registered, and that Omani nationals should hold a m in imum of 51 per cent of the company's equity; ( 2) the principal office of the company must be in Oman; and (3) the Ministry of Commerce and Industry was empowered to ban the import of products by suppliers who had no independent commercial agent in Oman. September 30. The import of all fresh fru it and vege- tables originating in Cyprus was banned. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee. The U.S. dollar is the in te rven t ion currency, and Pak is tan avails itself of w ider ma rg in s. The State Bank of Pak i s tan ( the cen t ral b a n k) m a i n t a i ns official rates of PRs 9.8844 buy ing, and PRs 9.9312 selling, per US$1 for dealings of banks w i th the public. All transactions in fore ign exchange must be conduc ted through authorized dealers, whose t ransac t ions w i th the general public must be effec ted at rates au thor ized by the State Bank. Authorized dealers in Pak is tan are per- mitted to cover the ir requ i remen ts of specified currenc ies in foreign exchange marke ts abroad. They may also cover the ir pe rm i t ted transac t ions in specified currenc ies against U.S. dollars or Pak is tan rupees, e i ther spot or fo rwa rd for a l im i ted period, w i th the ir agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they o f fer fo rwa rd cover in As ian mone ta ry u n i ts for exports and imports effected under the As ian C lear ing U n i on a r rangemen t, with the State Bank of Pak is tan s t a n d i ng ready to cover forward con trac ts reported by au thor ized dealers. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated au tho r i ty to a numb er of banks and financial in s t i tu t ions to deal in all fore ign currencies, to supervise su r render requ i remen ts, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in l im i ts pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the imp lemen ta t ion of impo rt and export policies. Certain foreign trade t ran sac t ions are conduc ted through var ious state t r ad ing agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd. (TCP ), the Cot- ton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP ), and the Edible Oil Cor- poration, Ltd. (EOCP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and paymen ts abroad must be effected through an authorized fore ign exchange dealer, in principle in any convertible currency or in Pak is tan rupees f rom or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Cer- tain settlements with specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of cred it for impor ts from all other countries must be established in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domestic currrency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the coun try of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over t ransac t ions with A fghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade t ransac t ions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commod i- ties with Bu lgar ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts w i th the People's Re- public of China are ma in ta ined in nonconvertible Paki- stan rupees; those w i th Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are in U.S. dollars; and the special account with North Korea is denom ina ted in deutsche mark. A special trade and paymen ts arrangement w i th the German Democratic Repub l ic, w i th an indicative commodity list only, pro- vides for payments to be effected through a clearing account ma in ta ined in U.S. dollars. Payments to and f rom Iran and Turkey relating to v is ib le trade (excluding border trade, Iran ian oil, and defense ma te r ia ls) are settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dol- lars. Under a credit arrangement with the Central Bank of Ceylon, all trade w i th Sri Lanka is settled through a c lear ing U.S. dollar account. Paymen ts to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion other than Bangladesh and Iran (i.e., Burma, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of cu r rent transactions (other than those relating to pe tro leum, na tural gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union; for settlements with Sri Lanka, this arrangement is applicable to invisibles only. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Pakistan are designated as non res ident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened w i th funds received from abroad through banking channels or w i th rupee funds which have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Ind ian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pak i s tani nationals residing abroad and foreign na- tionals, whe ther resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt f rom income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the 1 Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national ho ld ing such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in prin- ciple, be procured without restriction, while items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program. Items not on either list are effectively prohibited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Govern- ment for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghan is tan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months. In cases where machinery is specifically manufac tured, the validity period can be up to 24 months. Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are sub- ject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the license, and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent of the value of the license exceeding PRs 100,000, payable at the time of the issue of the license. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports f rom the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped f rom third countries. (2) In order to facilitate barter t rad ing and aid utilization and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP and the EOCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to industrial consumers. (4) In conform i ty with Regional Cooperation for Development arrangements between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey governing procurements from jo int industrial ventures, the import of nine items, including six chemical items, is restricted to procure- ment from Turkey. Also, dates may be imported only f rom Iraq. (5) Special provisions exist for the import for export industries of items on the tied list f rom non- tied sources and items not on either import list. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be mem- bers of approved trade organizations. ( 7) Licenses for permissible imports of indus tr ial plant and equ ipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 1.5 million for 314 imports against cash and PRs 2 million for imports under tied credit and under bilateral payments arrangements (larger plant and equipment are to be procured under the auspices of the financing institutions and with the approval of the Ministry of Indus t ry ). Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened within 60 days after registration of the license with the State Bank for private and public sector imports except for private sector cash imports where licenses lapse af ter 45 days. For imports under tied loans or credits which require the contract to be approved by the Economic Affa irs Division or any other specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports remain valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days af ter final approval of the contract. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum and oil and lubricant products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manu- facturers, the State Bank may authorize advance pay- ments for a part of the value of the goods. No import payments are permitted for goods originating in or con- signed f rom the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. The State Bank requires banks to take m in imum margins against import letters of credit (except for imports of industrial or agricultural ma- chinery as well as their components and spare parts, edible oils, tea, raw materials licensed under the Export Performance Scheme, crude oil and petroleum products, and synthetic fibers and ya rns) at the following rates: 10 per cent for raw rubber and raw ju te; 25 per cent for milk, cream, butter, medicines, spices, secondhand clothing, electric bulbs, industrial raw materials, un- exposed films, and construction and engineering equip- ment; and 40 per cent for all other items. Irrespective of origin, certain goods are subject to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem. These include cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, and passenger automobiles. A 10 per cent surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports except petroleum products, tea, tractors, certain specified machinery, and items exempt from import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to the Republic of China, Israel, South Africa, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regu- lations. Certain remittances of a personal na ture are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution their require special families abroad nationals to authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign im- porters or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 per cent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regulations apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's ap- proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a tr ip for private travel; this alloca- tion can be taken up once every two years. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle East- ern countries. Exporters w i th annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million are entitled to a renewable six- month blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$50 a day up to US$1,500 for each business trip. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan cur- rency notes and coins and any amount of A fghan cur- rency. Nationals working abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$50 a person and larger amounts if the currency notes were declared on entry. Those Pakistanis whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, including foreign currency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a family. Residents traveling to other foreign destina- tions may take out PRs 20 a person in Pakistan cur- rency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks granted by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination, and all exports to the Republic of China, Israel, Rho- PAKISTAN desia, and South Africa are prohibited.2 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for specified items which are subject to m in imum export prices (such as sports goods, surgical equipment, and bunker o i l ), export quotas (maize, onions, gram, and split g ram ), or quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton; rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corporation. A few chemicals may be exported only by the TCP. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment is received in accordance with the prescribed method, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. After ascertaining that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Export- ers are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment; the State Bank may, on the merits of each case, allow an extension of this period. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing f rom exports to Afghan is tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except raw cotton, wool, rice, hides and skins, and leather wet b lue) on the basis of confirmed irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders or on the basis of the previous year's export performance. The rate of income tax and corporate profit tax is reduced by 50 per cent on all income and profits derived f rom exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue. Industrial units established under the Pay-As-You- Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of sup- pliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on raw cotton, oil cakes, molasses, and semi-tanned hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be surrendered within one month. Travelers may bring in PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 and above may not be imported. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the 2 Prohibited exports include beef, mutton, grains, flour, da iry prod- ucts, edible oils, blood meal, meat meal, corn gluten meal, sesame oil cake, certain citrus fruits (unless g r ad ed ), and certain hides and skins. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: ( 1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established af ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subse- quent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal and the prize winnings may then be repatriated at any time. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securi- ties by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and re turn. Paki- stan securities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing fore ign na- tionals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make invest- ments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to ap- proval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities 316 payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non- resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through nor- mal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1977 January 20. A regulatory duty of 37.5 per cent ad valorem was introduced on the import of basic chromium sulphate, thus bringing the total customs duty to 72.5 per cent. January 12. The validity period for import licenses was extended f rom 6 months to 12 months. The licens- ing authority was empowered to issue licenses with a validity period of 24 months in cases where machinery and millwork were to be specifically manufactured (SRO No. 3 0 ( I ) / 7 7 ). January 21. The refinancing of exports against irre- vocable letters of credit was exempted f rom ceilings on loans and advances; refinancing against firm export orders continued to be governed by the lending ceilings. January 28. The import duty on raw cotton was suspended. At the same time, the duties on synthetic fibers (viscose, acetate, polyester, and nylon yarns) were reduced f rom PRs 3.50-4.50 per pound plus 10 per cent ad valorem to PRs 3.00 per pound plus 10 per cent ad valorem. January 29. The ban on the import of raw cotton with staple length up to 1 inch was lifted (SRO No. 96(1) 777). February 8. A new commodity exchange arrangement valid until June 30, 1978 was concluded with Poland. Both countries were to open nonconvertible U.S. dollar- denominated accounts for transactions under the arrangement. February 14. The maximum exchange allocations for study in various foreign countries were increased. February 23. The commodity exchange arrangement with A. B. Sukab of Sweden was extended until June 30, 1978 for the opening of letters of credit and until Sep- tember 30, 1978 for settlements and the making of deliveries. March 1. Authorized dealers were permitted to pro- vide forward cover in Asian monetary units for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arrangement, while the State Bank of Pakistan undertook to cover the forward contracts reported to it by authorized dealers. March 8. The concessionary refinancing facility for exports was extended to include postshipment sales, although exports on a consignment basis remained ineligible. The facility applied to all exports except raw cotton, rice, wool, hides and skins, and leather wet blue. March 24. A new one-year commodity exchange agreement was concluded with North Korea. April 14. Exporters with annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million became entitled to renewable six-month blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$50 a day up to US$1,500 for each business trip. May 12. A new commodity exchange arrangement with Bulgaria was concluded providing for the opening of letters of credit until June 30, 1978 and for the delivery of goods until October 31, 1978. May 13. A new commodity exchange a r rangement was concluded with the U.S.S.R. valid un t il Decem- ber 31. June 11. The spot and forward "on delivery" buying rates of authorized dealers for the U.S. dollar were changed to PRs 9.8389 = US$1 (from PRs 9.8418 = US$1) and to PRs 9.8233 = US$1 ( f rom PRs 9.8262 = US$1 ), respectively, as a result of the increase in the bank rate from 9 per cent to 10 per cent. June 11. New regulations governing marg in require- ments for the opening of letters of credit were issued, as follows: (1) Margin requirements would not apply to agricultural and industrial machinery, their com- ponents, and spare parts; edible oils; crude oil and petroleum products; synthetic fibers and synthetic yarns. (2) A margin requirement of 25 per cent would apply to milk and cream ( inc lud ing baby f o o d ); tea; butter; medicines; spices; secondhand clothing; electric bulbs; industrial raw materials; unexposed films; and con- struction and engineering equipment. (3) A margin requirement of 40 per cent would apply to all other items. June 30. The margin requirement on the opening of letters of credit for the import of tea was abolished (see June 11 entry, above). July 1. The import program for 1977/78 came into effect. Several minor liberalizations were enacted, which allowed fo r: ( 1) the import of soap tallow by commer- cial importers; (2) the extension of the impor t ing facility for modernization and replacement of machinery for the textile indus try; (3) the doubling of the ceiling on the value of imports of spare parts; and (4) easing of regulations governing the import of electric motors and transportable gas storage tanks. At the same time, the import quota for cotton yarn was reduced f rom 300 pounds to 110 kilograms per loom per quarter. July 1. In connection with the 1977/78 budget, im- port duties were generally increased by 20 per cent. PAKISTAN However, a substantial number of items remained exempt from the general increase (including all items which had previously entered Pakistan duty free) or were subjected to varying rates of increase or decrease. Apart f rom previously exempt items, crude petroleum and petroleum products, motor vehicles and tractors, tires and tubes, synthetic fibers and yarns, secondhand cloth- ing, and paper-making materials were not affected by the general increase. Duties on primary and semi- processed forms of iron and steel, copper and copper wire, minerals such as quartz, clay, and slate, and tires and tubes for scooters and rickshaws were reduced. However, duties on rerollable scrap, industrial ma- chinery, and timber and building boards were raised. Finally, all specific duties (and central excise taxes) were converted to the metric system. July 1. The import duty exemption granted on July 1, 1976 to goods produced or manu fac tu red in Sri Lanka was withdrawn. July 6. All restrictions were withdrawn on shipments by Bangladesh flag vessels and on shipments by Indian flag vessels of cargo covered by the Pakistan-Indian trade agreement of January 23, 1975. July 7. Interest rates were reduced for exports under the concessionary refinancing facility. For exports of domestically produced machinery and for all other eligible items, the maximum lending rates were lowered to 7 per cent and 8 per cent, respectively, from 10 per cent. Banks became eligible to obtain refinancing from the State Bank at 5 per cent. July 9. The 1977/78 Export Policy Order was pub- lished (SRONo. 599 (1 )777 ). August 30. A new one-year commodity exchange agreement with Czechoslavakia came into effect. September 4. The Export Policy Order was amended by the l if t ing of export bans on textbooks, paper prod- ucts, and low-quality lambskins and by an increase in the export quota for grain (see July 9 entry, above ). September 28. The margin requirement on the open- ing of letters of credit for imports of raw rubber for the production of tires and tubes and for raw ju te was lowered from 25 per cent to 10 per cent (BCD Circular No. 25 ). October 20. A regulatory import duty at the rate of 10 per cent was levied on fine quality tea, and the exemption in respect of unpackaged tea was replaced by a concessionary rate of 15 per cent ad valorem. October 22. Jute bags and ju te sacks for packing of goods, including secondhand items, the import of which had been reserved for the TCP (Part C of Free L is t ), could now be imported by all registered importers (Part A of Free List). October 11. The Export Finance Scheme was re- formed. Export finance continued to be provided by banks on a case-by-case basis against confirmed, ir- revocable letters of credit or firm export orders. As an alternative, however, credit limits could now be estab- 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN lished on the basis of the preceding year's export per- formance, with a max imum of 25 per cent of past export performance; such financing was made available on a revolving basis. The interest rate under the new scheme was limited to 8 per cent, irrespective of whether refinancing was obtained from the State Bank. The State Bank was prepared to increase banks' established ref inanc ing l im i ts in consequence of the liberalization of the Export Finance Scheme. Advances under the scheme remained exernpt from the max imum lending limit per borrower. As before, concessionary export financing was provided for all commodities except raw cotton, rice, wool, hides and skins, and leather wet blue (BCD Circular No. 29 ). November 3. Remittances to India on account of certain invisibles were permitted again within the general rules and limits established by the State Bank. The permitted payments categories were commissions for exports; controlling fees; miscellaneous expenses such as bank, storage, and demurrage charges; subscriptions to newspapers, magazines, and books; advertisement charges; and membership fees. December 11. It was announced that nationals work- ing abroad but visiting Pakistan might retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in and, when leaving Pakistan, might take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$50 a person and larger amounts if the banknotes were declared on arrival in Pakistan (F.E. Circular No. 39). December 15. The commodity exchange agreement with A. B. Sukab of Sweden was extended until Decem- ber 31, 1978 for the opening of letters of credit and until March 31, 1979 for settlements and the making of deliveries. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is B 1.00 = US$1, and Panama does not avail itself of wider margins. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins, a commemorative silver coin of B 20, a com- memorative platinum coin of B 150, and two commemo- rative gold coins of B 100 and B 500. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks are based ma in ly on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for human i ta r ian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panaman ian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical prod- ucts and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as foodstuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zones. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, andT for certain manu- factured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coco- nu ts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, certain foods tuffs, firearms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. Certain non trad i t ional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their tr ip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a du ty of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Papua New Gu inea is the K ina. The kina was pegged to the Aus t ra l ian dollar un t il Decem- ber 16, 1976. With effect f rom December 17, 1976, the direct link with the Aus tra l ian dollar was discontinued and a flexible exchange rate a r rangement was adopted, whereby the exchange ra te for the k ina is de term ined on the basis of a predetermined set of rules. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea deals w i th local banks in Aus- tralian dollars, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars only. On December 30, 1977, the fixed b u y i ng and se l l ing ra tes of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea for the Au s t r a l i an dollar were $A 1.1580 and $A 1 .1551, per K 1, and its buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.3213 and US$1.3187, per K 1. The correspond- ing rates for the pub l ic posted by the au tho r ized dealers were $A 1.1608 buy ing, and $A 1 .1523 selling, per K 1, and US$1.3241 buy ing, and US$1.3159 selling, per K 1. The exchange ra te of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea for the U.S. do l lar is set da i ly on the bas is of the m idd le rate quoted by the Reserve Bank of Au s t ra l ia. Papua New Gu inea fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea adm in is te rs exchange control according to the Foreign Exchange Regulations issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government w i th the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Department of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea delegates extensive powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Export licensing is adm in is tered by the Depar tment of Foreign Relations and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual comm i tmen ts to persons resident outside Papua New Gu inea, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign cur- rency. l Export proceeds may be received in any fore ign currency or in k ina f rom an overseas bank 's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Gu inea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such accounts may be withdrawn w i thout fu r ther forma l i ty. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denom ina ted in a foreign currency. 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 320 Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except for goods imported f rom Rhodesia. Authorized dealers have powers to approve most transactions with- out completing application forms or referr ing to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Approval is given for pay- ment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equ ipmen t. There are no import licensing requirements. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies wr i t ten a f ter December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not per- m i t ted. No absolute limits are imposed on travel funds, although applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for num isma t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency which they brought in and had recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods w i thout exchange control forma l i ty (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea. The essential conditions of this Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Bank for a Specific Authority. No authority is needed for certain excepted categories of goods; these include sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Va lua t ion) Act. Special pro- visions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood chips). Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed w i thout l im i t; advance comm i tmen ts, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. Persons ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment outside Papua New Guinea by per- manent residents and by companies and other organiza- tions operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private companies, and K 100,000 for public com- panies. Investment may only be in the fo rm of market- able company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by perma- nent residents. 2 Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Minister for Finance. Foreign investments other than those in bank- ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. In addition to investment in the fo rm of loans and equity capital, approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is 2 Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as in- cluding deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. PAPUA NEW GUINEA also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebtedness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank ing (Go ld) Regulations is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. An exemption to the regulations allows native miners to export gold to Australia for refining without specific approval. The regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coins with a gold content of over K50. A gold coin valued at K 100 is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out freely by travelers. Changes during 1977 February 1. The previously agreed long-term trade agreement with Australia came into force, establishing a free trade area between Papua New Guinea and Australia. May 1. Papua New Guinea acceded to the Lome Convention. August 4. The kina was revalued $ A 1.1450. November 15. The k ina was revalued to K1 = $A 1.1565. to K 1 = 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para- guayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place in a dual exchange market. Transactions in the official exchange market (mercado libre bancario) are concerned with exports and imports (except unrecorded border t rade ), certain current in- visibles, all government transactions, registered private capital transactions, and related profit remittances. These must be carried out through the Central Bank of Paraguay ( for all government transactions) or an authorized commercial bank, at a rate of 0 126 per US$1, subject to taxes and commissions. All other transactions are channeled through the fluctuating free market (mercado libre fluctuante), unless settlements are effected under reciprocal credit agreements with LAFTA countries. Transactions in the free market are conducted through licensed foreign exchange houses at a fluctuating rate, which on December 31, 1977 was 0 133 per US$1 buying and 0 137 per US$1 selling. All purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent, except transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat packing plants; and transactions relating to invest- ments in Paraguay under the terms of Investment Laws Nos. 216/70 and 550/75. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign ex- change. A tax of 10 per cent is levied on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and a tax of 30 per cent on remittances of interest, royalties, rents, honorariums, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents f rom Paraguayan sources. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, must sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign ex- change receipts in specified currencies 1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by commercial banks and authorized foreign ex- change houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay must be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned main- tain with each other, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.2 Im- ports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are mainly narcotics and arms and ammunition. All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or, for nonexempt com- modities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organiza- tions, petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, and news- print from any source, imports from neighboring coun- tries and Uruguay, and imports f rom other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (ma in ly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and Uruguay). A surcharge of 0.5 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Small Farmers' Credit Agency, is levied on imports of all goods other than wheat and wheat flour, crude petroleum and its deriva- tives, and Pharmaceuticals. There is an additional sur- charge of 5 per cent on imports f rom all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and acces- sories. Commodities that are exempt from surcharge generally are also exempt from advance deposit. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petroleum ex- ploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for religious, charitable, 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These include sugar, rice, flour, and certain other agricultural prod- ucts and foodstuffs, certain petroleum products, cement, certain yarns and textiles, dry cell batteries, and certain wires and wire products. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cultural, or educational purposes; imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations; Span- ish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under Investment Laws Nos. 216/70 and 550/75. Imports of investment goods and of raw mate- rials for export industries receive exemption on a case- by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tar iff surcharge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 or 24 per cent (8 or 16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and the surcharge is levied on either the c.i.f. value, calculated as the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports f rom neighboring countries and Uruguay, or, for imports f rom other countries, the true market value upon arrival in customs. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to in ternal con- sumption taxes; imports under the Investment Laws and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consump- tion Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent. In add i t ion to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on either the c.i.f. value of imports or the true market value upon arrival in customs: a consular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of 1.5 per cent, except for wheat and certain other commodities; the proceeds of the customs surcharge go to the Institute of Technology and Standards. Imports of construction materials are subject to an add i t ional customs surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing and Urban iza t ion. Imports of specified goods ( inc lud ing television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval f rom the Central Bank. This approval is norma l ly granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. Import payments are free f rom formal restriction, but certain delays arise f rom time to time as a result of weekly releases of fore ign exchange to the private commercial banks by the Central Bank. Paymen ts through the LAFTA clear- ing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the free market. There are allocations at the official rate for a few invisibles, such as payments related to study abroad, while trade-related invisibles may be settled in accordance with documents submitted. The PARAGUAY General Banking Law limits the remittance of profits through the official market to 30 per cent of any one year's profits for commercial banks and financial insti- tutions and to 60 per cent for investment, development, and mortgage banks; the remaining profits must be rein- vested in the financial sector or in other specifically authorized activities, and 20 per cent of such reinvested amounts may be transferred abroad annually. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and a few other items are prohibited. Meat exports are subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports, such as hides and skins, require licenses in order to ensure adequate domestic supplies. All other exports are free of license but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days a f ter completion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an author- ized commercial bank For all exports the Central Bank establishes m in imum export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds corresponding to either these prices or the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; however, for coffee exports the equivalent of 50 per cent of the m in imum export price must be sold to the bank ing sys- tem, while the balance remains at the free disposal of the exporter. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) pub- lished by the Ministry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranies, rang ing f rom 1.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent of the aforo value; most exports are also subject to an additional tax of 1.5 per cent of the aforo value. Exports of meat products are exempt f rom export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. Travelers may b r ing in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital Movements of registered capital take place in the official exchange market through authorized banks, and all other capital movements are channeled through the free market. All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks and exchange houses. Authorized banks may grant exchange at the official market rate for transfers of registered capital, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Other out- ward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Investment Law No. 550/75 em- powers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly regis- 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY tered and approved. Capital imported and registered under the Investment Laws may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent f rom the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency origi- nally imported. Gold In practice residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and ex- change houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, for which nonbank residents and industrial users are eligible; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. Changes during 1977 December 19. A revised tar iff schedule was issued converting the system of specific duties into an ad valorem tariff structure for most imported commodities (Decree No. 35683). 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par va lue for the Pe ruv ian Sol was established with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. On the basis of Decree-Law No. 21953 of October 7, 1977, the exchange rate for the sol is to be determined by supply and demand .1 All exchange trans- actions must be conducted through the b a n k i ng system, and the Central Reserve Bank has the preferred right to purchase foreign exchange at the average ma rket buy ing rate at the close of the preceding business day. Banks operating in the exchange ma rket are requ ired to l im it the marg in between the ir buy ing and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent. No commis- sions are charged by the Central Reserve Bank on any exchange transactions. On December 31, 1977, the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 130.0 and S/. 130.7, respectively, per US$1. All foreign exchange receipts must be sold to the bank ing system or be deposited in fo re ign currency ac- counts. Export proceeds, inc lud ing loans for the pre- f inanc ing of exports, must be surrendered to the Cen tral Reserve Bank, which issues fo re ign exchange cer t if ica tes equal to 65 per cent of the va lue of such receipts and converts the rema in ing 35 per cent in to soles at the average buy ing rate at the close of the preceding bus i- ness day. These exchange certificates are denom ina ted in U.S. dollars, are va l id for three days, and must e i ther be used by the original holder to effect paymen ts or transfers or be sold to the bank ing system. If not utilized w i th in th .ee days, the certificates are canceled and the correspond ing amount is credited to the bearer at the average buy ing rate at the close of the preced ing business day m inus a d iscount of 2 per cent. All per- mitted foreign exchange p aym en ts and t rans fe rs may be effected either by means of these cer t if ica tes, represent- ing a claim on the Central Reserve Bank, or by the direct purchase of fo re ign exchange f rom the b a n k i ng system at the p reva i l ing ma rket rate. Banks may open fore ign exchange demand and t ime deposit accounts for residents and nonres iden ts and may issue certificates of deposit denom ina ted in fo re ign ex- change. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these certificates of deposit must be received f rom abroad in the fo rm of d r a f t s, checks, or bank t rans fe rs, but must not derive f rom export proceeds. Foreign exchange certificates of deposit must be for amoun ts not less than US$1,000 and have a m a tu r i ty no longer than 360 days. They are free ly negotiable both in Peru and abroad, and may be used to pay im- 1 Beginning in mid-December 1977, however, the commerc ial banks restricted sales of exchange in order to stabilize the exchange r a te for the sol in terms of the U.S. dollar. port and export taxes and to pay for imports Section on Capital be low). Peru fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. (see Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade in the M in is try of Commerce.2 The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange cer- tificates against receipts f rom exports, and authorizes, d irec t ly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. A specific impo rt license is required for most import t ransac t ions by the private sector. Public sector imports require the approval of the Board for External Trans- actions of the Public Sector and must be registered w i th the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports va lued at more than US$100 also require a resolution of the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance. Borrow ing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- e rnment guarantee, are subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the High Committee of the External Debt, the Na t ional P lann ing Ins t i tu te, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. The Na t ional Commission on Investment and Foreign Tech- nology (CON ITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of fore ign t radema rks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty paymen ts. Most paymen ts for invisibles require the approval of either CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of 13 prescribed convertible currencies,3 but ex- change certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of t rade t ransac t ions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under b i la teral pay- ments agreements. No other prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Payments between Peru and A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other cen tral banks concerned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA mu l t i la te ral clearing system. 2 On J anu a ry 1, 1978, the Ministry of Commerce was comb ined w i th the M in is try of Indu s t ry, Tourism, and In teg ra t ion. 3 N ine currencies are prescribed for ex te rnal t r ade t ransac t ions: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f r an c s, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. dol- lars. For non trade transactions, operations may also be e f fec ted in Austrian schillings, Canad ian dollars, No rweg ian k rone r, and Swedish kroner. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Imports and Import Payments Goods not included in the List of Permitted Imports may not be imported (except for goods f rom Andean Pact countries and g i f t s ). Moreover, the import of a large number of manufac tures included in the Na t ional Register of Manu fac tu red Products requires the approval of the Ministry of Industry, Tourism, and Integration and of the customs authorities, which is granted only in exceptional circumstances unless the goods originate in a country of the Andean Pact. For goods on the List of Permitted Imports that are also on the National Register of Manufactured Products, the importer must show that local production is insufficient in quantity or quality. Each import transaction of the private sector requires a specific import license, which is issued automatically by the Directorate of Foreign Trade provided the im- porter is listed in the National Registry of Importers, the goods are included in the List of Permitted Imports, and the requirements described above with regard to the National Register of Manufac tured Products are met. Imports f rom countries of the Andean Pact, however, do not require an import license and need only be regis- tered with the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Also, im- ports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the production of nontraditional exports are exempted from import duties and do not require a specific import license, provided that the appropriate sectoral m in is t ry determines that such imports qua l ify under the Tem- porary Admission Regime. Certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by the Fish Meal Market- ing Agency ( E PCHA P ), and crude petroleum and petro- leum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Industrial Marke t ing (ENC I ). All private and public sector imports are subject to certain m in imum external financing terms except food- s tu f fs and pharmaceutical products, import shipments valued at less than US$2,000 up to an annual total of US$25,000 for each importer, and imports paid for with foreign currency certificates of deposit issued by the bank ing system. For imports of capital goods va lued at over US$10,000 f.o.b., at least 80 per cent of the value must be financed abroad through loans either f rom suppliers or f rom other foreign creditors or f rom the Peruvian state development banks, to be repaid in ac- cordance with prescribed m in imum credit terms of f rom two to five years. State development banks may only provide such financing for national enterprises. All other imports, including the remaining 20 per cent of the value of capital goods which is not covered by the medium-term financing requirement, are subject to a m in imum external financing requirement of 180 days. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevocable documentary credits and the intermediating bank must 326 guarantee refund ing of the foreign currency if the im- port is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. All goods, whether imported or produced domestic- ally, are subject to a sales tax, levied at a general rate of 20 per cent, a maximum rate of 40 per cent, prefer- ential rates between 2 per cent and 8 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effective rates of between 11 per cent and 15 per cent; there is also a list of exempted items. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical prod- ucts, books, and coins. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for invisibles, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized freely provided genuine current payments are involved. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, require a resolution of the M in is try of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clearance, and a visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Remittances of profits on fore ign capital invested in Peru are limited to 20 per cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted in exceptional cases.4 In compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE. All payments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior ap- proval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its affiliates. The effective interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent com- pany or its aff i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is denominated. Central Reserve Bank ap- proval is required for purchases of exchange for pay- ments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and human i ta r ian purposes, for income, insurance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expen- ditures of agencies, branches, and offices of nonresident firms. Interest payments by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The annual limit on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$1,000 a person (US$500 a year for children under 12). For business travel the limit is US$100 a person a day up to a limit of US$1,500 a trip, plus US$500 a trip for representation expenses; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel there is a 30 per cent tax on all passages and fares and 4 Companies exporting at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Pact and mining companies are exempt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a flat travel tax of S/. 2,000 for the first five days spent abroad and S/. 200 for each additional day. Student remittances require the approval of the National Insti- tu te of Scholarships and Educational Loans (!NABEC) and are generally limited to US$500 a month. Limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian residents are limited to US$100 a month and require the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. Foreigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 per cent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obligations, but those who avail themselves of these provisions are required to waive all rights to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Cen- tral Reserve Bank may authorize purchases of exchange in excess of the above limits in jus t if ied cases. Nonresidents visiting Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$50 in foreign exchange on presentation of evidence that at least that amount in foreign exchange had been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. The ex- port of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINEROPERU and the Banco Minero over exports of gold and silver. M INPECO has a monopoly over mineral exports, EPCHAP has a monopoly over exports of fish meal, fish oil, coffee, and cotton, and EPSEP over exports of fish for human consumption. All exports are subject to license, and all export proceeds, as well as export prefinancing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within ten working days of receipt. Tra- ditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of non trad i t ional exports or local hand icraft articles are granted transferable tax credit certificates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equiva- lent to 30 per cent of the c. & f. value (the f.o.b. value is used when the goods are shipped in fore ign vessels).5 These certificates may be used by the exporter in pay- ment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other tax- payers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion administers an export credit guar- antee program and the Industrial Bank provides or arranges export finance for non trad i t ional exports. Tra- ditional exports are subject to a tax of 15 per cent. For 5 In addition, 2 per cent is allowed for new exports, 10 per cent for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area, and 10 per cent for goods considered to be priority exports. PERU exports by public sector marketing enterprises, the goods and services tax, as well as the nontraditional exports tax, is determined in foreign exchange at the time of shipment; the corresponding tax in soles is determined at the exchange rate prevailing on the date payment is received. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be sold to the bank- ing system or deposited in authorized foreign exchange accounts within ten working days of receipt. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian cur- rency, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant excep- tional treatment in special circumstances. Capital All outward capital transfers require approval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment the ap- proval of CONITE is required, while for most other trans- fers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. Banks may receive funds originating abroad in the form of drafts, checks, or bank transfers for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue foreign exchange certificates of deposit against such funds. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and both are exempt from income and inheritance taxes until December 31, 1979. Under an exchange amnesty, residents may repa- triate foreign assets without specifying the origin of such funds, and without facing penalties for having vio- lated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. Such repatriated funds are exempt f rom all taxes, in- cluding income taxes. All foreign investments in Peru require the prior approval of the appropriate authorities so that such investments are directed to projects considered essential for the country's development. If a fore ign company, incorporated in Peru as of July 1, 1971, wished to benefit f rom the du ty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to agree, by June 30, 1974, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the com- pany so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974, the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 per cent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru a f ter June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent par t ic ipa t ion by na t ional investors must be secured at the t ime of the in i t ia t ion of produc t ion. Foreign inves tmen ts in firms engaged in basic indus t r ies or in m i n i ng activities ( i n- c lud ing petroleum p roduc t ion) and in f irms that export at least 80 per cent of the ir p roduc t ion to coun tr ies out- side the Andean Common Market are exempt f rom the requ irement of gradual t r a n s f o rm a t i on in to mixed com- pan ies; however, these enterprises do not benef it f r om the du ty - f ree program of the Ca r tagena Agreemen t. Foreign en terpr ises may not have access to domestic cred it on terms longer than 3 years. Inves tment in the m i n i ng sector is governed by the General M in ing Law. Compan ies ho ld ing m i n i ng con- cessions may enter in to m i n i ng con trac ts w i th the Gov- e rnment providing for special incen t ives and gua ran tees or may cons t i tu te mixed en terpr ises w i th government pa r t ic ipa t ion of at least 25 per cent. The Gov e rnm ent may g r ant to m i n i ng concessionaries ( i n i t i a t i ng large-scale inve s tment programs) tax incen t ives and guaran teed ava i l- a b i l i ty of fore ign exchange for t r an s f e rs for ( 1) recovery of inv e s tm en t, (2) interest paymen ts if the ra te does not exceed the p reva i l ing ra te for s im i l ar loans in the f inan- cial m a rk et f rom which the loans o r ig ina te, (3) pay- men ts for ju s t i f ied services, and (4) reasonab le p ro f it rem i t tances, together w i th gua ran teed access to the most favo rab le exchange ra te. M ixed m i n i ng enterprises may receive all the benef i ts and incen t ives which may be granted by special con trac t, and, in add i t ion, special tax reduc t ions. Gold The export of gold and silver in the fo rm of agglom- erated or na t ive me ta ls is the monopo ly of M INERO PERU, wh i le the ir export in the fo rm of precious me ta ls is the monopo ly of the Banco M ine ro del Peru. The au tho r i t ies do not make fore ign exchange ava i lab le for impo r ts of gold other th an by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i- ties and au thor ized indus t r ial and p ro fess ional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carr ied out by indu s t r ial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco M ine ro del Peru, but on ly M INEROPERU is au thor ized to make the i n i t i al pu r- chase of newly m ined gold and other precious me ta ls. Res iden ts t rave l ing abroad may not take out jewe l ry va lued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered w i th the cus toms (S /. 15,000 for trips to n e ighbo r ing coun t r i e s ). Changes during 1977 April 12. Decree-Law No. 21826 approved Decisions Nos. 103 and 109 of the Commission of the Andean Pact re la t ing to the common t rea tment of fo re ign invest- ment and of t radema rks, patents, licenses, and royalties. 328 Ar t ic le 10 of Decision No. 103 established an annual l im it on profit remittances equal to 20 per cent of the invested foreign capital, but empowered each member coun t ry to au thor ize remittances in excess of this limit. Each member coun t ry also was empowered to authorize the inc lus ion of und is tr ibu ted profits in the invested fo re ign cap i tal to which this percentage would apply. A r t ic le 8 of Decision No. 103 established that foreign en terpr ises m ight not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than three years. June 3. The l im i ts on ava i lab i l i ty of fore ign exchange for tour is t, business, and other travel were raised, as were the l im i ts on rem i t tances for fam i ly obligations (Banco de la Nacion Circular EF/92-25-No. 030 /77 ). On Ju ly 4, the allocations were fu r ther raised (Banco de la Nac ion Circular EF/92-25-No. 0 3 1 / 7 7 ). July 27. All unused exchange allocations for imports in the first two qua r te rs of 1977 were canceled. The a l loca t ions for the th i rd qua r ter were cut by 15 per cent, and those for the f o u r th quar ter were cut by 25 per cent (Sup reme Decree No. 0094-77-EF). August 1. The m i n im um financing requirement for impo r ts, previously 90 or 120 days, was raised to 180 days. The requ iremen ts were extended to include both cap i tal goods valued at US$10,000 or less, and the 20 per cent downpayment on capital goods valued at more than US$10,000. The previously established pro- v is ions se t t ing down med ium - te rm f inanc ing requ iremen ts for 80 per cent of the va lue of capital goods valued at more th an US$10,000 remained in force. Imports of food and Pharmaceu t ica ls continued to be exempt f rom financing requ i remen ts; but whereas, previously import sh ipmen ts va lued at up to US$5,000 up to an annual va lue for each impor ter of US$50,000 had been exempt, the l im it on import shipments was now lowered to less t h an US$2,000 (c. & f .) and the annu al l im it for each impo r ter was reduced to US$25,000 (Cen tral Reserve B a nk C ircu lar No. 033-77-EF/90). August 20. Procedures were established imp lemen t ing the Tempo ra ry Admission Regime under which imports of raw ma ter ia ls and in termed ia te goods for the pro- duc t ion of non t rad i t ional exports were exempted f rom impo rt du t ies. To qua l i fy under this procedure, the export wou ld be required to have a value-added com- ponent equal to at least 30 per cent. Goods imported und er the Temporary Admission Regime would not requ i re a prior import license. For firms tak ing advan- tage of these provisions, the basic compensatory tax reba te for non t rad i t ional exports would be calculated on the basis of the export value m inus the f.o.b. value of raw materials and inputs imported (Supreme Decree No. 018-77-CO/CE). October 7. Decree-Law No. 21953 abolished the cer t if ica te and d r a ft exchange markets and created a s ing le exchange market in which the exchange rate for the sol would be determined by supply and demand. The legislation establishing the annual national import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange budget and import exchange cards was abro- gated. It was announced that all fo re ign exchange receipts must be sold to the bank ing system or be deposited in authorized foreign currency accounts w i th in ten work ing days of receipt. However, export proceeds, including prefinancing, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which would issue fore ign ex- change certificates equal to 90 per cent of the export value and would convert the r em a in ing 10 per cent (see also October 25 entry, below) into soles at the average buying rate of the preceding wo rk ing day. Exchange certificates denominated in U.S. dollars would be valid for three wo rk ing days. If not utilized w i th in three days, the certificates would be canceled and the corresponding amount in soles would be credited to the bearer at the average buy ing rate at the close of the preceding busi- ness day, m inus a discount of 2 per cent. All perm i t ted foreign exchange payments and transfers wou ld be effected either by means of these certificates, represent- ing a claim on the Central Reserve Bank, or by the direct purchase of foreign exchange f rom the b ank ing system. The Central Reserve Bank would have the right to purchase exchange f rom the bank ing system, such pur- chases being effected at the average buy ing rate of the preceding business day (Exchange Reso lu t ions Nos. 001- 77-EF/90 through 004-77-EF/90). October 7. Limits on foreign travel expenditures and on f am i ly remittances, which previously had been ex- pressed in soles, were revised and fixed in terms of U.S. dollars. The annual l im it on exchange for tou r ist expenditures by Peruvian residents, previously S/. 79,800 (US$987) a person was raised to US$1,000 and the daily sublimits were abolished. The limits on exchange for business travel, previously a max imum of S /. 4,650 (US$57) a day plus representation expenses of S/. 31,000 (US$387) a trip, were raised to US$100 a day up to a max imum of US$1,500 a person a t r ip plus representation expenses of US$500 a trip. New U.S. dollar l im i ts were also established for travel in connec- tion w i th medical treatment, s tudy abroad, and par t ic i- pation in in te rna t ional meetings. A l im it of US$100 a mon th was set for rem i t tances to f am i ly members resid- ing abroad. Foreigners resident in Peru m ight rem it up to 50 per cent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obligations, but those ava i l ing themselves of that facility would be required to wa ive all rights to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws (Exchange Resolution No. 003-77-EF/90). October 7. An exchange amnesty was declared under which residents might repa tr ia te foreign assets w i thout penalty and w i thout specifying the origin of the f u n d s. Repatriated funds would be exempt f rom all taxes, inc lud ing income taxes (Decree-Law No. 21954). October 7. The travel tax for tourist and business travel was modified. A 30 per cent tax would apply to all passages and fares for fore ign travel and, in addition, there would be a flat tax of S/. 2,000 for the first five PERU days spent abroad and S/. 200 for each additional day (Decree-Law No. 21955). October 7. It was announced that the tax on goods and services, as well as the tax on nontraditional exports, applied to exports by public sector ma rke t ing enterprises would be determined in foreign exchange terms at the t ime of sh ipmen t; the corresponding tax in soles would be determined at the exchange rate prevailing on the date payment was received (Decree-Law No. 21957 ). October 21. It was announced that fore ign exchange certificates might be endorsed only to bank ing institu- tions. Previously, these certificates had been freely negotiable (Exchange Resolution No. 007-77-EF/90). October 25. The share of export proceeds converted directly into soles by the Central Reserve Bank was raised f rom 10 per cent to 35 per cent, the balance being covered by foreign exchange certificates. November 3. Nonresidents v is i t ing Peru for purposes of tou r ism or business might, upon leaving the coun try, purchase up to US$50 in foreign exchange upon pres- entation of evidence showing that at least that amount in fore ign exchange had been converted into soles dur ing the preceding 30 days (Exchange Resolution No. 012- 77-EF /90). November 8. Banks operating in the exchange market were requ ired to limit the margin between their buy ing and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent (Central Reserve Bank Circular No. 39-77- EF /90 ). November 22. New regulations governing the grant- ing of prior import licenses were issued. Such specific licenses would be granted automatically by the Import Depar tment of the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the M in is try of Commerce provided ( 1) the importer was listed in the National Registry of Importers, (2) the product was included in the List of Permitted Imports, and (3) the product did not compete w i th domestic products listed in the National Register of Manu fac tu red Products. A prior import license would be required before documen ta ry credits could be opened or before documen ts could be processed on a sight or consignment basis. The prior import license or, in the case of public sector impor ts, the import registration, must be presented before customs clearance. Imports f rom Andean Pact coun tr ies would not require a prior import license (Supreme Decrees Nos. 026-77-CO/CE and 028-77- CO /CE ). December 6. Banks were authorized to open fore ign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for resi- den ts for f u n ds originating abroad. Balances on fore ign exchange accounts, and the interest thereon, would be freely disposable (Exchange Resolution No. 015-77- EF /90 ). December 13. Banks were authorized to issue Foreign Exchange Bank Certificates, for amoun ts of not less than US$1,000 and w i th a ma tu r i ty no longer than 360 days. Certificates of deposit would be freely negotiable both 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU in Peru and abroad, and might be used to pay import and export taxes and to settle import transactions. In the latter case, all import financing requirements would be waived. Interest on certificates of deposit or on foreign exchange accounts would be exempt from income taxes until December 31, 1979 (Decree-Law No. 22038). December 16. It was announced that certificates of deposit in foreign exchange might be issued only against drafts, checks, or bank transfers. The same regulations would apply to deposits in foreign exchange accounts. Export receipts, including prefinancing, must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank and might not be deposited in foreign exchange accounts or be used to purchase certificates of deposit denominated in foreign exchange. Foreign exchange deposits and certificates of deposit might not be used as guarantees against loans in local currency (Exchange Resolution No. 016-77-EF/ 90 ). 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso. All exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1977 this rate was about P 7.37 per U.S. dollar. In spot transactions with their customers of less than US$100,000, commer- cial banks are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The maximum and m in imum spot buying rates are 0.50 per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The m in imum and maxi- mum spot selling rates are 0.75 per cent and 1.25 per cent above the guiding rate, respectively. For transac- tions in excess of US$100,000, the margins are com- petitively determined. The Central Bank of the Philip- pines, which is not governed by the Association's trad ing rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Neither the Central Bank nor the commer- cial banks quote currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX), where the Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or port- folio investment in the Philippines requires the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BO I ). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor- porate, without prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to non- residents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and nonresi- dents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, national welfare and security, and those of certain others, mostly agricultural commodities, for protective purposes. There are no other quantitative restrictions on imports (other than imports of gold); however, sales of foreign exchange for imports of speci- fied commodities are subject to prior approval of the Central Bank .1'2 Such approval is granted on a case- by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods categories (unclassified, semiunclassi- fied, and nonessential consumer goods) or for com- pletely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodi- ties (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Any importation of plant, machinery, equipment, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with maturity periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or within 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importa- tion by any single importer of nonagricultural machinery and equipment with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 within a calendar month, with the exception of (1) certified export-oriented firms, and (2) other importers who have obtained prescribed certification from the BOI. Trade with any of the state trading countries must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D /A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A proce- dures is confined mainly to firms with a history of importing under these arrangements prior to Febru- ary 21, 1970; to producer firms established after that date and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI, 1 Authorized agent banks have been instructed not to accept applica- tions for letters of credit or foreign exchange in respect of specified textile products that are subject to a moratorium. 2 Central Bank approval is required for payments for imports of cer- tain synthetic fibers; certain synthetic yarns; all textile machinery and equipment; beef; ships and appurtenances thereto; sodium cyanide; excavating machinery; concrete mixers and pavers; wagons, trailers, and carts; certain motor vehicles and tractors; and steel billets, ingots, hot-rolled coils and sheets, and other steel products listed under Commodity Group 681. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES or are franchisee! utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods cate- gory. Unless arrangements for such terms of credit are made, imports in excess of US$100 (US$500 for pub- lications) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt f rom the require- ment of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commit- ments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only af ter a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports into border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are per- mitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, pro- vided that amounts of more than US$100 are substan- tiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by authorized agent banks as follows: (1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an additional representa- tion allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adu lt resident for nonbusiness travel to A f r ica, No r th and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Mid- dle East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, the Republic of China, or any other neighboring country. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students unde r tak ing degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities: studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tui- tion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zea- land, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, 332 US$150 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. The following limits apply for remittances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The maintenance allowances for depend- ents are allowed only for close relatives under condi- tions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized since January 1, 1973, are permitted in full, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic credit. Profits earned and dividends declared before January 1, 1973 (which had been unremittable for some time) may be remitted over a period of two years. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copy- rights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Central Bank, provided that (1) the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manufac tured locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of ma rke t ing service contracts), and (2) contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the pro- ducer's share of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be pur- chased f rom authorized agent banks, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export f rom the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines, when travel- ing abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 1,000 for first- class ship or airplane tickets or P 600 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic s taff and Philippine nationals mak ing their first pil- grimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deemed essential for indus tr ia l iza t ion and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registra- tion of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central B a n k ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clear- ance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the pre- scribed currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be unde r taken by an authorized agent bank; how- ever, payment by means of telegraphic t rans fe r, check, or mail t rans fer may be allowed. Paymen ts for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank s ta t ing that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a pre- scribed currency within 60 days f rom the date of ship- ment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of machinery, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of ma jor exports. The rate is 6 per cent for copra and cen t r i fugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut oil, desic- cated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, unmanu fac tu red abaca, unmanu fac tu red tobacco, canned pineapples, shrimps and prawns, bunker fuel oil, bananas, cement clinker, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and resi- dues; and 2 per cent for copper ore and copper concen- trates. However, the export taxes on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. Certain tradi- tional export commodities are subject to p rem ium export duties; those on copper ore, copper concentrates, and cement are suspended. The Philippine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state trad- PHILIPPINES ing countries is handled through the Philippine Inter- na t ional Trading Corporation. There are separate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. Philippine na t iona ls employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplo- matic establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender require- ments, provided that the remittances represent neither cu r rent earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obligations. Bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Philippine nationals working abroad are required to repa tr ia te specified m in imum shares of their foreign earnings, rang ing f rom 30 per cent to 70 per cent of earnings. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. The "1,500-Peso IMF-IBRD" gold coins and the "Ang Bangong Lipunan" are exempt f rom these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain bank ing operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see be low), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in k ind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, export-oriented industries, and other (nonexport- or ien ted) industries not utilizing domestic credit re- sources. The law guarantees fu ll repatriation of cash investments made af ter March 15, 1973 in (a) export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, (b) enterprises registered with the BOI, and (c) securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Man i la and Maka ti stock exchanges. M in imum repatriation periods, however, are prescribed; thus, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for re- patriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except investments in domestic commercial banks, which, if made after March 31, 1973 are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are cer- tain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in fu ll but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports are repatri- able in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annu al installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; ( 3) investments in enter- prises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; (4) for investments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments after liquidation; US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments af ter liquidation; and over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments af ter liquidation. During the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, liquidation proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in fore ign cur- rency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered w i th the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit f rom abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade trans- actions. They may, however, accept deposits in nine scheduled currencies3 f rom nonresidents of foreign na- tionality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt f rom the 35 per cent withholding tax. From April 1, 1977 seven domestic commercial banks and two local branches of foreign banks were licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from international money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The maturity may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to US$250,000 (with certain exceptions), not less than 3 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 334 8 yea rs for am o u n ts b e tw e en US$250,000 and US$500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than US$500,000. For export industries, amounts exceeding US$500,000 are approved if the credit has a ma tur i ty of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal; and for amounts less than US$150,000, 3-year or 4-year maturities may be permitted, depending on the amount of credit and the type of export industry. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms that are in arrears with gov- ernment financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not fa l l ing under these two categories, prior ap- proval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may transfer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securi- ties between residents and nonresidents. The Monetary Board of the Central Bank has author- ized 11 foreign banks to operate offshore bank ing units in the Philippines, as from April 1, 1977. The total number of authorized offshore banking units was 16 at the end of 1977. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. All investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom f rom expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pio- neer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and at least 60 per cent of the out- standing voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Philippine nationals. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission from the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production. Exports of gold (as principal produc t) are subject to an export tax of 4 per cent. Primary gold producers may sell their production, in the form of refined standard bars, to authorized gold dealers of the Central Bank or retain it abroad for their own account for sale either to other authorized gold dealers or in the free market abroad. Purchases by authorized gold dealers f rom p r ima ry producers are based on current London market prices (as quoted in U.S. dollars, multiplied by the interbank guiding rate on the date of sa le ); sales by authorized gold dealers or primary producers in the free market abroad must be settled in "acceptable" foreign currencies. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized gold dealers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any fo rm other than jewelry. A gold coin with a face value of P 1,000 has been issued, which is legal tender; another gold coin valued at P 1,500 was issued in connection with the 1976 Annual Meetings of the IMF and the IBRD in Man i la. These coins may be imported freely by travelers as well as resident physical or ju r id ical persons. With this exception, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1977 February 7. Rediscounting facilities for nontraditional exporters were liberalized as part of the policy of en- couraging such exports. March 17. Import payments for color reproduction machines, wagons, trailers and carts, and concrete mixers and pavers were made subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. March 20. The Monetary Board of the Central Bank authorized 11 foreign banks to operate offshore bank ing units in the Philippines as from April 1. Such offshore banking units might freely engage in a wide range of PHILIPPINES foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and /or with other offshore banking units. Time and call de- posits should not be less than US$50,000 for each deposit. Licenses were also granted to 7 domestic com- mercial banks and 2 local branches of foreign banks to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system as from April 1. Foreign currency deposit units were empowered to borrow funds from the international money markets for domestic on-lending. April 18. Firms registered in the Export Processing Zone were exempted from the requirement of prior Central Bank approval for imports of capital goods in excess of US$50,000 in any calendar month. May 5 and May 11. The Central Bank's prior approval requirement was extended to import payments for the following items: sodium cyanide; earth excavating, level- ing, and boring machinery; some road construction and m in ing machinery; and certain motor vehicles and tractors. September 1. A travel tax of 15 per cent was imposed on residents purchasing airline tickets for foreign desti- nations. September 2. The Philippine Sugar Commission as- sumed monopoly powers over sugar exports from the Philippine Exchange Company. September 5. Residents were prohibited f rom holding U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies without authori- za t ion. Tourists from abroad were required to convert fore ign currency into Philippine pesos. October 3. The provisions of the travel tax were revised. Passengers traveling first class were required to pay P I ,000 and economy class passengers were required to pay P 600. There were certain exemptions. October 10. Foreign companies became eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low- priority sectors. October 28. Offshore banking units were required to hold not less than US$1 million of their net office funds with the Central Bank. November 21. Prior approval of the Central Bank was no longer required for import payments for color reproduction machines; prior clearance for these imports was transferred to the National Bureau of Investigation. December 21. Prior approval of the Central Bank was no longer required for import payments for tires; prior clearance for tire imports was transferred to the Inter-Agency Committee on Used Trucks and Tires. December 28. Prior approval of the Central Bank was no longer required for import payments for air- planes or caustic soda; prior clearance for these imports was transferred to the appropriate government agencies. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On June 1, 1962 a par value for the Portuguese Escudo was established with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. From March 1973 to February 1977, the escudo was allowed to float, although, in practice, the exchange rate was set by the Bank of Portugal. On February 25, 1977, the escudo was depreciated by 15 per cent and pegged to a basket of currencies. Since August 26, 1977 Portugal has followed a flexible exchange rate policy. The exchange rate is adjusted frequently in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to the importance of individual currencies in Portugal's receipts and payments for commodities, tour- ism, and private transfers. Based on the d ifference between the domestic inflation rate and the average inflation rates in the partner countries, the Bank of Portugal periodically announces depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo for six- month periods. On December 31, 1977 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 39.783 and Esc 39.927, respectively, per US$1. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange.1 The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.0750 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange mar- ket. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell fore ign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their for- eign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that fore ign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. 1 The currencies dealt with in the official exchange market and quoted by the Bank of Portugal are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 336 The Bank of Portugal provides forward exchange cover in ten foreign currencies for periods of one, three, and six months. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. This Directorate-General also administers the trade controls; import and export licenses are issued by its Foreign Trade Division, or by other duly author- ized executive departments. All imports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million are subject to prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Committee; this screening is intended only to prevent overinvoicing and underinvoicing. Almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. State agencies undertaking international trade transac- tions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Greece and Turkey are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled in Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars, and import trans- actions may be settled in any of the above currencies or in escudos. In addition, transactions with Canada, Fin- land, Japan, South Africa, and Spain may be settled in the currencies of those countries. Payments to nonresi- dents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments arrangements are divided into (1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries and (b) transfers between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the fo rm of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the author- ization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments a r rangemen ts2 are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to resi- dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Portu- guese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the fo rm of current accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of withdrawal, or time accounts. Deposit accounts may, without prior authorization f rom the Bank of Portugal, be credited only with remittances f rom abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an inter- national postal order, the equivalent in escudos of exter- nal means of payments sold to credit institutions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited without restrictions. Nonresidents may open foreign accounts in eight for- eign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with remittances f rom abroad and with the relative interest due and may be debited without restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations cur- rently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, ma in ly for rea- sons of health, public order, and the prevention of com- mercial f raud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 5,000. Almost all imports f rom all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quan t i ta t ive restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bulle- tin is equivalent to an import license (but for imports valued at over Esc 5 million prior authorization must be obtained from the Foreign Trade Control Comm i t tee). The validity of the bulletin is 90 days for authorization purposes, and 120 days af ter the authorization for settle- 2 Greece and Turkey. PORTUGAL ment purposes. Personal baggage and imports of mer- chandise the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000 do not require a bulletin, except when fo rm ing part of an order with a total value exceeding Esc 5,000 and provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Payments beyond one year af ter customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Certain import items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, coffee, bananas, etc., are subject to quota limitations in value terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely f rom most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other agricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished prod- ucts, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported f rom other GATT countries, are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports f rom countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports f rom countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports f rom some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral trading arrange- ments. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- tural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA or EEC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. Imports of passenger automobiles of EFTA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of non-EFTA origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EEC origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each pro- ducer. Imports of commercial vehicles for special pur- poses are free of restrictions. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain imports and foreign financing is required for certain imports. Minimum proportions of foreign financing and minimum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gener- ally free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, but for most trans- actions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments arrangements, the author- ized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the licensing centers (established in con t inen tal Portugal, Madeira, and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 60,000. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 7,000 a person a year, Esc 4,000 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 2,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists may take Esc 1,000 out of the country in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amounts of domestic or for- eign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 5,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins ). Exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million require prior authoriza- tion by the Foreign Trade Control Committee. Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pri- mary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the pre- scription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise the value of which does not exceed Esc 5,000 do not require a bulle- tin, provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign cur- rency indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduc t ion of commission expenses abroad, and fre igh t, insurance, or other charges from the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun- tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction once the proposed operation proves to be 338 from invisibles must be real and licit. Receipts surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 1,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in banknotes, coins, and checks denominated in foreign currency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins by nonresidents for other purposes require author- ization by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 20,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amount. Re turn ing residents may also bring in any amount up to Esc 1,000 in domestic bank- notes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coins. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settle- ment of external transactions. Capital All private capital transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 50 million and with a ma tur i ty of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are permitted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund provides exchange risk insurance against losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 per cent on approved foreign borrowing. The t rans fer abroad of the proceeds f rom the liquida- tion of foreign investments is authorized after five years, but for large amounts the Bank of Portugal may require that the transfer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guarantees may be provided. Foreign loans and their repayments are authorized as necessary. Emigrants leaving Portugal are subject to the same limits as resident travelers, unless they can prove the importation of foreign exchange exceeding the limits, or the receipt of such foreign exchange, within 30 days before departure. Transfers by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized au toma t ica l ly up to Esc 100,000 annua l ly for a f am i ly and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of each case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been residents in Portugal are authorized on the merits of each case when they return to their country of origin. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insurance policies due from Portuguese insurers are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000. Capital movements and transfers of assets not mentioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Capital held abroad by residents in the fo rm of for- eign exchange that is not subject to surrender require- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents other than authorized banks are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Import authorizations for industrial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Asso- ciation of Industrial Users of Gold. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other tnan jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1977 January 1. New regulations regarding domestic and foreign import financing became effective: (1) specified essential goods, comprising mostly foods tuffs, raw mate- rials, and intermediate goods, as well as capital goods, would be eligible for domestic credit up to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value for a max imum period of 180 days; importers would, however, be encouraged to seek for- eign financing; (2) neither domestic nor foreign import credit would be permitted for goods classified as non- essential, mostly consumer goods, except upon special authorization from the Bank of Portugal; (3) capital goods for resale could receive domestic credit up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value for a maximum period of 180 days, and provided that the total value of the order would exceed Esc 0.5 million; (4) light capital goods for the importers' own use in fixed investment and with a f.o.b. value between Esc 0.5 million and Esc 3 million would be eligible for domestic credit up to 60 per cent for a maximum period of 180 days and would require foreign financing of 40 per cent with a m in imum ma tu- rity of two years; and (5) heavy capital goods with a f.o.b. value over Esc 3 million would be eligible for domestic credit up to 20 per cent for up to 180 days and would require foreign financing of 80 per cent with a m in imum ma tur i ty of three years. For imports of raw materials, intermediate essential goods, and for some capital goods these regulations were eased on PORTUGAL April 26. From that date, raw materials and interme- diate essential goods were eligible for domestic credit up to one year, and for imports of capital goods, in the case of orders of less than Esc 15 million, foreign credit would not be obligatory and full domestic credit financ- ing would be permitted. However, for import orders exceeding Esc 15 million, domestic credit financing could not exceed 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value and foreign credit of not less than 70 per cent and for a minimum period of two years would be required. January 13. Foreign exchange budgets for imports during 1977 of certain basic food items were approved. The state agencies responsible for the importation of these items were, however, authorized to arrange only for imports of up to 70 per cent of the approved amounts. The budgets would be reviewed quarterly. February 15. Portugal agreed to limit its export of certain textile products to Sweden during the period up to February 14, 1979. February 25. The escudo was depreciated by 15 per cent and pegged to a basket of currencies, weighted according to the importance of individual currencies in Portugal's receipts and payments for commodities, tourism, and private transfers. Value quotas were introduced for such import items as unassembled automobiles, domestic appliances, coffee, bananas, etc., affecting approximately 7 per cent of 1976 imports. It was announced that public entities undertaking international trade would be required to utilize Portu- guese vessels. February 28. An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund was established to insure foreign credit operations of "signifi- cant national interest." Beneficiaries would be insured against any exchange rate losses exceeding 3 per cent. The Lisbon Stock Exchange, which had been closed since April 25, 1974, was reopened for trading in equities. Procedures were announced for compensation for foreign companies that were expropriated or national- ized after April 25, 1974. The nationalized assets would be assessed by April 30, 1977 and compensation made within 30 days thereafter. March 28. Portugal applied for membership in the EEC. April 5. Portugal and the EEC agreed that Portugal would limit the volume of exports of prepared or canned tomatoes to the EEC during 1977 to the same volume as in 1976. April 9. The Macao pataca became linked to the Hong Kong dollar on the basis of P 1.0750 = HK$1. June 3. The 60 per cent import surcharge was extended to various goods that previously had been subject to the 30 per cent surcharge. About 2 per cent of 1976 imports were affected. June 18. A scheme for tax incentives for exports for the period 1977 to 1979 was introduced. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL July 1. In accordance with the provisions of the EEC- Portugal free trade agreement, Portugal fu r ther reduced its import duties on many industrial and certain proc- essed agricultural goods originating in the EEC. August 24. A new Foreign Investment Code was announced, providing for improved facilities for the repatriation of capital in the event of company sales or liquidations and eased restrictions on remittance of profits. The code also allowed for appeals to inter- national courts in cases of dispute. A Foreign Investment Ins t i tu te was established to coordinate, guide, and supervise fore ign direct invest- ment, to control the execution and implementation of any acts or contracts in the area of t rans fer of tech- nology, and to ensure imp lemen ta t ion of government policy in these areas. August 26. The Bank of Portugal announced a policy of controlled f loa t ing of the effective exchange rate of the escudo. The effective rate would be subject to f re- quent adjustment in accordance with the d i f fe rence between the domestic inflation rate and the average ra te of the principal trading partners. The depreciation objectives for six-month periods would be announced in advance and the Bank of Portugal would provide fo r- ward exchange cover periods of one, three, and six months on the basis of these objectives. Subsequently, on September 22, it was announced that the trade- weighted effective rate of the escudo would be permitted to depreciate by 1 per cent per month. August 29. Commercial banks were authorized to open nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. August 29. An ordinance was published establishing a new prior registration system for imports and exports. No extensions of the prior registration bulletins were to be allowed; export payments must be effected within 120 days and import paymen ts within one year of customs clearance. Settlements beyond these periods would require the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal. October 1. Prior registration of imports was required for par t ial shipments of Esc 5,000 or less when such shipments were part of a single order of over Esc 5,000. October 10. All imports of goods subject to advance import deposit would require an import license regard- less of the value of the consignment. November 6. The bilateral payments agreement with Israel was term ina ted with effect from November 1, 1977. November 25. Some of the import financing arrange- ments that had been introduced on Janua ry 1 and April 26 were changed: (1) for essential goods, the domestic credit limit was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 90 per cent of the f.o.b. value; (2) orders for capital goods up to Esc 7 million would be eligible for domestic credit up to 90 per cent of their value; (3) orders for capital goods worth more than Esc 7 million would requ ire fu ll foreign f inanc ing. December 17. Import quotas for unassembled auto- mobiles were established for the period February 17- December 31, 1978. Eighty per cent of the quotas could be used freely and the rema in ing 20 per cent would be made available only to the extent that actual exports of the same value took place. December 31. The advance import deposit require- ment was abolished. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Qatar Riyal. On March 19, 1975 the currency was pegged to the SDR at QR 4.76190 = SDR 1; subse- quently, Qatar applied margins wider than 2.25 per cent. The Qatar Monetary Agency buys and sells U.S. dollars with a spread of 3 per mill around the middle rate of QR 3.94945 set on March 13, 1976;l the Agency also sets buying and selling rates for the pound sterling. The commercial banks' exchange rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1977, their buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.9392 and QR 3.9597, respectively, per US$1.2 Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation in Qatar. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammu- 1The middle rate was changed to QR 3.8785 per US$1 with effect from January 28, 1978. 2 There are fixed rates of QR 1 = Dh 1 for U.A.E. dirhams and QR 10 = BD 1 for Bahrain dinars brought in by travelers f r om the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, up to limits of Dh 5,000 and BD 500, respectively. nition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for rea- sons of health, morals, or security. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Otherwise there are no limi- tations on payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Foreign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. For ma jor industrial projects it is government policy to assume 70 per cent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Romanian Leu has been estab- lished with the Fund. The leu is officially defined as equivalent to 0.148112 gram of fine gold, yielding offi- cial rates as at December 31, 1977 of lei 4.97 per U.S. dollar and lei 6.67 per ruble. There is no exchange market. The National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Romania quotes official rates also for certain other cur- rencies. Quotations for the 16 currencies defined as "freely convertible" l (except those for the U.S. dollar itself) and for the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Icelandic krona, the Israel pound, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar are based on their rates against the U.S. dollar in the countries con- cerned; for the U.S. dollar and for inconvertible curren- cies, exchange rates are based either on the gold content against the leu or on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, nontrade transactions with countries other than the socialist countries2 are carried out at the official rate plus a premium of 141.45 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12.00 per US$1; the sale of exchange at this rate to Romanian citizens for private use is subject to an additional service charge. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equali- zation system. Excluded f rom this system are imports of machinery and complex equipment, assemblies, sub- assemblies, and spare parts for investment, the domestic delivery prices of which are determined by converting the foreign price into lei at a customs valuation coeffi- cient, to which customs duties are added. For consumer goods a similar calculation is made; their domestic prices are fixed, and any difference between these prices and those resulting from the calculation is reflected in the profits of the importing enterprise. For all other imports (basic raw materials and intermediate goods for pro- duction) and for all exports, the price equalization system applies. The equalization system is designed to eliminate the effect on the earnings of exporters and importers of the differences between domestic prices and foreign prices converted into lei at a un i fo rm settlement coefficient of lei 20 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist coun- tries exchange rates are established by special agree- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Listed las Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 342 ments; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per ruble. An accounting rate of lei 20 per U.S. dollar is used for the payment and repayment of foreign loans taken up or granted by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, other official bodies, and Roman ian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial cen- trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Foreign trade units have autonomy in selecting their foreign partners and operate on a trade criteria basis, tak ing into account prices, quality, delivery and payment conditions, etc. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, both the provisions of existing trade agreements and criteria of economic effi- ciency are taken into account. Foreign currency pro- ceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that Bank. Exchange con- trol is administered by the National Bank and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance with the procedure set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted for- eign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the National Bank. Neither justification nor authorization is required to open such accounts, except for foreign economic organizations and agencies, which have to show evidence of permission to operate in Ro- mania. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, gold, or other precious metals (except silver); B-Accounts are maintained in noncon- vertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion 3 The countries with which bilateral payments arrangements were in force as of December 31, 1977 were listed as Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Fin- land, Ghana, Greece, India, Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mali, and Viet Nam. Settlements w i th Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mon- golia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. took place through the multilateral pay- ments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Furthermore, certain settlements with Singapore also took place through special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received f rom legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were derived and for payments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fu r ther au tho r i- zation. Nonresidents may also keep accounts with the Savings and Consignment Bank. In addition, any bank may accept f rom nonresident customers t ime deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates preva i l ing in in terna t ional markets. Roman ian citizens, including Roman ians working abroad who transfer their savings to Roman ia, may open foreign currency accounts with the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade or the Na t ional Bank. The deposits may be used for payments at home or abroad, or for ex- change into lei at the official rate plus premium (lei 12 per U.S. do l l a r ). Receipts f rom abroad for special pur- poses for the benefit of Roman ian citizens (such as the building of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and edu- cation) are paid out entirely in fore ign currency. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts f rom abroad, such as donations, assistance, or fam i ly ma in- tenance, a proportion may be deposited in a fore ign currency account and the rest must be converted at the official rate plus p rem ium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, producing enterprises, and indus tr ial centrals on the basis of current and long- term needs. These plans are correlated and integrated into a single national plan of economic and social development. The fore ign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importer or exporter countries but it does distinguish between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authoriza- tions are not restrictive or discriminatory and are issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take ROMANIA measures with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enterprises as a lump sum, or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral pay- ments agreements, and in the latter case the country also is specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. According to the customs regulations in effect since Janua ry 1, 1977, customs duties on imports are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. For an indefinite period of time customs duties are not levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 tariff positions and subpositions. Moreover, customs duties were reduced by up to 70-80 per cent for imports of machinery, equipment, complex equipment, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts. The customs ta r i ff is nondiscriminatory. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or the appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or ind iv idual trips payable in lei. Receipts from trans- actions in invisibles must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12 per US$1. Trav- elers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries or Yugoslavia must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" curren- cies) 4 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their families; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their families; (c) persons s tudy ing in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Roman ia (including joint ventures) and their families; *The acceptable currencies, other than the U.S. dollar, are: Austra- lian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Icelandic k ronu r, Indian rupees, Israel pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (e) guests of socialist units and of other jur id ical per- sons in Roman ia, as well as of in terna t ional organiza- tions having their headquarters in Roman ia; ( f) children under 14 years; (g) teachers v is i t ing Roman ia under agreements for cu l tu ra l, technical, and scientific coopera- tion and their fam i l ies; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) fore ign personnel in assembly works or prov id ing technical assistance in Roman ia and their fam i l ies; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (k) Roman ian citizens possessing a va l id Roman ian passport who are domiciled abroad; ( 1) per- sons resident abroad without a valid Rom an i an pass- port, but who have not renounced the ir Roman ian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories ( j ) - ( ! ). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Roman ian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Roman ian notes and coins by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Out- ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded with a number of countries prov id ing for au toma t ic authorization of transfers of specified amoun ts to and f rom Roman ia. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of jo int ventures in Romania and abroad by Roman ian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in jo int ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The law and the decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits af ter taxes. By agreement the accounts of jo int ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The Na t ional Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and per- sonal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1977 January 1. The customs tariff on imports, previously experimental, was introduced definitively. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc. On January 7, 1974 Rwanda estab- lished a central rate of RF112 = SDR 1, and since that date the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has maintained a middle rate for the U.S. dollar of RF 92.84 = US$1. The Bank also quotes certain other currencies.1 The National Bank levies a fee for the validation of import and export licenses as well as t rans fer authoriza- tions; the fee for import licenses is 1 per cent of the f .o.b. value and for export licenses and t rans fer authorizations it is RF 350. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Governor of the Na t ional Bank, and five other members, but this Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Burund i, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire are made through special accounts. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the Na t ional Bank, which in principle is the currency of the country of origin. Payments f rom any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. All foreign payments, except in border trade, must be made by bank transfer; for import payments, however, payment by check made out in the name of the creditor is also permitted. Exchange transactions w i th Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as nar- cotics, are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of public policy. All imports valued above RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali where payment is required in foreign exchange. The import of the baggage and household effects of travelers and merchandise valued at up to RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali when settled in Rwanda francs are exempt f rom the prescribed forma l i t ies. Before 1 Belgian francs, Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Tanzania sh i l l ings, Ug anda sh i l l ings, and zai'res. orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank through an authorized bank. The approval of an import license application con- stitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. The Na t ional Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for specified amounts to ind iv idual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are examined at the National Bank to avoid overinvoicing. Any importer applying for a license must do so in writing, and confirm that when paying for the imports he will not overrun the normal regulation credit allowance. An importer requ ir ing a global license, an ordinary license of RF 1,000,000 or more, or several licenses for more than RF 3,000,000 in any one month must present the fo l low ing in fo rma t ion: ( 1) a copy of the balance sheets, the trading statements, and the profit and loss statements for the last financial year, at the latest three months a f ter the close of the financial year, and (2) an account of the stock remain- ing at the end of the calendar quarter, a monthly state- ment for each commodity, and a statement of sales made du r ing the same quarter. Balance sheets, t rad ing state- ments, and prof it and loss statements must be submitted each year in the three months following the close of the financial year and statements of stock and monthly state- ments of sales must be renewed within the first 15 days of each calendar quarter, or —at the latest —when appli- cation is made for the first license of the quarter in question. Except as stated above, there are no restric- t ions as to currency of payments or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that payments are made to the supplier or shipper. All imports are inspected for quality and quan t i ty in the country of origin prior to shipment and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank. Importers are authorized to pay by means of docu- mentary credits upon shipment. All imports except baggage and household effects of travelers and merchan- dise valued up to RF 100,000 c . & f. Kigali (when pay- ment is made in Rwanda f r a n c s ), are subject to a license validation fee, wh ich is 1 per cent of the f .o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) con- nected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages —after income tax and social security con t r ibu t ions and a f ter deduction of 40 per cent of net income or RF 35,000 a month, whichever is higher —of 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign na- tionals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave (without deductions). Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (unless a documentary credit has been opened). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with the Societe Nationale d'Assurance (SONARWA). Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may in principle be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents and resident expatriates may not transfer their net income from rents, except after the sale of the real estate. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the Na- tional Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes declared upon entry less the amount of their expendi- tures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certifi- cation. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for minerals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered tb an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services per- formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Re transfer guarantees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months; such inflows result mainly from financial transactions between Rwandese banks and their foreign correspondents. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1977 April 29. The Government instituted an obligatory inspection procedure prior to shipment of goods being imported into Rwanda. July 11. A license validation fee of RF350 was imposed on transfer authorizations for transactions in invisibles. November 7. The Japanese yen was added to the list of quoted currencies. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra. The dobra was intro- duced on September 8, 1977. Since that date Sao Tome and Principe has maintained exchange rates for the dobra on the basis of Db 45.25 = SDR1. Prior to Septem- ber 8, 1977 the currency of Sao Tome and Principe was the Sao Tome and Principe escudo which was maintained at par with the Portuguese escudo. The dobra replaced the Sao Tome and Principe escudo on a one-to-one basis. On December 31, 1977 the buying and selling ra tes for the U.S. do l lar we re Db 37 .1661 and Db 38.1070, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and excep- tions to the existing limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be sur- rendered to the National Bank. All exchange payments must also be made through the National Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Office of Eco- nomics of the Ministry of Economic Coordination. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign transactions shall be made. There is a bilateral payments agreement with a swing limit of US$200,000 with Cape Verde. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are valid for four months and if necessary, may be extended on an ad hoc basis. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported. It also specifies the currency of settlement. Licenses granted have to be presented to the National Bank within 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Imports of some products,, such as meat, rice, sugar, wheat and corn flour, corn, beans, milk, salt, soap, and edible oils are a state monopoly and are imported exclusively by the Commercialization Fund. Licenses are granted in the following order of priority: (1) medi- cines, basic foods tuffs, fertilizers, and insecticides; (2) spare parts for machinery and equipment and raw ma- terials for industry; (3) toiletries; and (4) other. Prepayment of imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Import payments in con- vertible currencies are subject to a commission of 1.625 per cent, to cable costs, to a processing fee (taxa de 1 Sao Tome and Principe became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 30, 1977. expediente) for opening a letter of credit, to interest at a rate of 6.5 per cent, and to a processing fee of Db 1,000 for settlement of the letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved according to limitations established by the National Bank. Foreign exchange purchases by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although airplane tickets may be bought with domestic currency. Transfers of profits have been tem- porarily suspended. There are no limitations on remit- tances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payment of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be established. Foreign exchange allowances for travel on business of national interest are granted up to a maximum of Db 1,000 for each day of travel, Db 15,000 a trip, and Db 50,000 a year. However, these limits can be exceeded if there is adequate justification. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 30,000 in the first month and Db 15,000 in each of the ensuing two months, if adequate justification is provided. Further transfers are decided on an ad hoc basis. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted if such payments began at least one year before permanent residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. Re- mittances to close relatives are permitted up to an annual maximum of Db 5,500 for each relative living abroad or up to 40 per cent of the income of the person making the remittance, whichever is lower. For remittances to relatives studying abroad (at a high school or a uni- vers i ty), the following annual limits apply: Db 3,500 for persons 15 years of age or younger; Db 4,000 between the ages of 15 and 21; and Db 6,500 for persons over 21. At the beginning of the school year a student may also receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a 2 per cent stamp tax. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 per cent. Foreign travelers may take out the amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, which specifies the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the Na- tional Bank. Although the Directorate of Commercial- ization, a state institution, is responsible for the great majority of Sao Tome and Principe's exports, and most exports are produced in the nationalized sector of the economy, exports are not a state monopoly. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign ex- change. Capital Amortization payments are permitted if the existence of the debt can be established and if the debt was assumed at least one year before the debtor takes up residence in Sao Tome and Principe. Such payments are also permitted if they relate to activities considered of national interest. When leaving the country, emigrants may take with them up to Db 20,000 a person and Db 30,000 a fam i ly. Thereafter, transfers are granted w i th in the following max imum mon th ly limits: Db 15,000 a person, Db 20,000 a couple, and Db 25,000 a family. However, these transfers must not exceed 40 per cent of the income earned and verified during the period of stay in Sao Tome and Principe; any amounts in excess of two months' transfers that are still unremitted must be deposited with the National Bank. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authoriza- tion by the National Bank. Changes during 1977 September 8. The dobra replaced the Sao Tome and Principe escudo as the currency of the country on a one-to-one basis. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On August 11, 1973, Saudi Arabia established a par value of 0.207510 gram of fine gold per Saudi A rab ian Riyal, corresponding at the time to SRls 4.28255 = SDR1 or SR ls 3.55001 = US$1. Saudi Arabia avails itself of wider margins. Since March 15, 1975 Saudi Arabia has maintained exchange rates for the riyal on the basis of the parity of SR ls 4.28255 = SDR 1; since September 9, 1975 rates have been permitted within margins somewhat wider than 2.25 per cent but not exceeding 7.25 per cent. On December 31, 1977, the Saudi Arab ian Monetary Agency's m idd le rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.495; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.50 per US$1 and bought f rom banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.49 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 per cent above and below the Mone- tary Agency's buying and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. All settlements w i th Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting f rom government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, inc lud ing private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1977 May 29. Implementing a decision of June 1, 1976 the Government declared that within one year the M in is try of Finance and the Saudi Arab ian Monetary Agency should complete the conversion of all foreign banks into Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies with ma jor i ty interest in share capital being held by Saudi Arab ian nationals. July 31. The m idd le rate of the riyal against the U.S. dollar was ad jus ted f rom Rls 3.53 per US$1 to Rls 3.525 per US$1. October 23. The middle rate of the riyal against the U.S. dollar was ad jus ted f rom Rls 3.525 per US$1 to Rls 3.515 per US$1. November 28. The middle ra te was aga in appreciated to Rls 3.505 per US$1. December 15. The middle rate of the riyal aga inst the U.S. dollar was adjusted to Rls 3.495 per US$1. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries. Exchange rates for fore ign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on t rans fe rs to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in is try of Finance and Economic A f f a i r s. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is au thor ized to collect, either direct or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu- tions, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and notaries public, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile balance of paymen ts statistics. All exchange transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs (Directorate of Foreign T r ad e ), inc lud ing those for gold. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 350 Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with The Gamb ia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone usually are effected through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.2 All settlements w i th Rhodesia and Sou th Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or bankno tes issued by any other institute of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by authorized banks' foreign correspondents; such banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts opened by the latter with authorized banks in Senegal. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Rhodesian and South A f r ican origin are prohibited f rom any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited f rom all countries except mem- ber states of the West A f r i c an Economic Commun i ty. The import f rom any source of a number of other com- modities is subject to ind iv idual licensing. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; some goods, although f ree f rom import license, require prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economic A f fa i r s. Imports of v i r tua l ly all goods f rom EEC countries ( the six original member s ta tes) and imports of some goods f rom all fo rmer OEEC countries, the Un i ted States, and Canada are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction; such liberalized im- ports require only an import certificate made out by the importer h imse l f. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through ind iv idual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegal border or c.i.f.). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment if a documen ta ry credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been 2 There is an inoperative bilateral payments agreement with Guinea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lad ing ). Furthermore, pay- ments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Au- thorized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign ex- change remaining after return to Senegal must be sur- rendered. Applications for additional amoun ts of fore ign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period; however, for Mauri- tanian nationals working in Senegal the transferab le portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on fam i ly status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are transferable in full. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allo- cation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but, if proceeding to a coun try that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any means of payment, such as travelers checks, established abroad in their name, and foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry (m inus the amount converted in Senegal plus any amount up to CFAF 50,000 reconverted by purchase of foreign bank- notes), or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, SENEGAL tunny fish), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re- exports. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. When received in a non-Franc Area currency, they must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one month af ter collection. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 150,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue main- ta in ing an Operations Account, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bring- ing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements be- tween Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of ex- change control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted fo r, securities whose issue, o f fe r ing, or sale in Senegal have previously been author- ized. With the exception of controls over foreign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to relations with France, Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs .3 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Sene- ga l4 must be declared to the Minister before such invest- ments are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months f rom receipt of the dec lara t ion du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects. Both the mak ing and the liquidating of direct and other invest- ments, whether these are Senegalese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct inves tmen ts cons t i tu te inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior au thor i- za t ion by the M in is try of Finance and Economic A f fa i r s. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. The following are, however, exempt from this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. The Investment Code provides various fac i l i t ies and benef i ts for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export industries estab- lished in the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i r s. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c les); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers 3 Inc lud ing inves tmen ts made th rough fore ign companies t h at are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 352 in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Office for Handicrafts (O f f ice Senegalais de 1'Artisanat) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology. Changes during 1977 January 22. For pharmaceutical products, the fiscal en t ry du ty was raised f rom 10 per cent to 11 per cent and the taxe forfaitaire representing the levy on import transactions in these products was lowered f rom 22 per cent to 6.20 per cent (Laws Nos. 77 /29 and 77 /31 ). April 10. Import controls and duties were modified. Customs duties were reintroduced on imports f rom EEC countries. All products originating in EEC countries became subject to du ty of 5 per cent, while all goods or ig ina t ing in third countries, w i thout prejudice to special ta r i ff agreements between Senegal and those countries, became subject to a 10 per cent rate. Capital goods, u t i l i ty vehicles for the sick, processed foods, corn, rice, seeds, drugs, cattle, fertilizers, and movies and related items were exempted. June 1. The exchange allocation for travelers to foreign countries was raised f rom CFAF 150,000 to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten ), the max imum allocation for business travelers was raised f rom CFAF 150,000 a trip to CFAF 300,000 a trip, and the amount that might be taken out (in addition to any foreign exchange allocation) in the fo rm of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries was increased f rom CFAF 15,000 to CFAF 20,000 (Circular No. 42 ). June 1. Approved intermediaries were empowered to effect any payment abroad freely up to CFAF 20,000, ins tead of CFAF 15,000 (Circular No. 4 3 ). June 1. The threshold for domiciling imports with an approved intermediary was raised f rom CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 100,000 (Circular No. 44 ). June 1. The domiciliation threshold for export opera- tions was raised f rom CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 150,000 (C ircu lar No. 45). June 4. Under the provisions of Law No. 77/68, turnover tax was levied at the augmented rate of 25 per cent for vehicles of more than nine horsepower, exclud- ing utility vehicles and vehicles designed for the trans- portation of travelers. August 9. Japan and Senegal granted most-favored- na t ion trea tment to each other, on the basis of the com- mercial agreement signed on November 2, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, the value of which is off ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at Sey Re 1 = £, stg. 0.075. Exchange rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are de term ined by the commercial banks on the basis of London ma rket rates. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control and there are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Import and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for impor ts, except where goods imported f rom Rhodesia are con- cerned. With this exception, most goods may be im- ported free ly f rom any source under open general license. Paymen ts for such t ransac t ions may be effec ted w i thout the completion of application fo rms. A l im i ted number of imports requ ire a specific license and the impo rt of a few items is prohibited. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for inv is ib les. No l im i ts are imposed on the provision of travel ex- change. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or fore ign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports no rma l ly do not requ i re licenses. Res iden ts may export goods without exchange control forma l i ty to any country, except Rhodesia; transactions and settle- ments w i th Rhodesia are off ic ia l ly prohibited. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Disposal of foreign currency proceeds, whatever the or ig in, is totally free. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital payments. Ou tward transfers of overseas-owned cap i tal are allowed without limit, and advance commit- men ts may be given. Whether they have been granted tempo ra ry residential status or not, nonnationals are permitted to repa tr ia te their surplus earnings without l im i t. New investment outside Seychelles by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations ope ra t ing in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct invest- men t, increased investment in existing entities in the fo rm of loans, or equity capital) is free. Gold Residents may free ly hold, purchase, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. A gold coin with a face va lue of Sey Rs 1,000 is legal tender. 1 Seychelles became a member of the International Monetary Fund on J u ne 30, 1977, and accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i c le V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, on J a n u a ry 3, 1978. Changes during 1977 No s ign i f icant changes took place. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone. With effect from June 27, 1972, however, the leone was allowed to float with sterling. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals in sterling only and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = <£ stg. 0.50, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1977, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.97 and US$0.94, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement.1 Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gamb ia, Ghana, Mali, Liberia, and Nigeria are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Receipts f rom exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia may be obtained in leones from an External Account or a Sterling Area Account in Sierra Leone, in the currency of the impor t ing country, or in any specified currency.2 Receipts f rom all exports must be obtained in the cur- rency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra *A payments agreement concluded with Guinea in 1964 is inopera- tive. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 354 Leone in the importing country, or if there is no such account, through an account in a bank in the importing country nominated by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Settle- ments with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia may be desig- nated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling Area countries 3 may maintain Sterling Area Accounts denominated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone in the name of persons resi- dent in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Certain goods may be imported under open general license from a wide range of countries. Other- wise, all imports require individual import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Rice Corpora- tion. Authorized banks have limited authority to grant foreign exchange for import payments; for imports under specific import licenses, the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each individual license, and for imports under open general license the Bank's approval must be obtained where the payment for an individual item of import exceeds Le 5,000. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the foreign exchange availability into account in considering applications. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice entry tax of 4.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for many current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited in principle to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxab le annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the transfer of higher amounts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone, buying commission is not normally per- mitted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not normally allowed. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amoun ts are considered on an a S ierra Leone's regu la t ions still prov ide a de f in i t ion of the Sterling Area; the definition includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destina- tion, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, including ster- ling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of pur- chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the exporta- tion of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all coun- tries except Rhodesia, South Afr ica, and South West Africa (N am i b i a ). The proceeds of exports, inc lud ing diamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the importing country or any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; they must be received by the exporters and sold to an author- ized bank in Sierra Leone within three months f rom the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by five locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of fore ign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 per traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission f rom the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ- ated abroad. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together w i th profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and t rans fer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis- sion if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usua l ly required to obtain bank certification of the f u n ds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given SIERRA LEONE later for taking out more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domes- tic companies undertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Since October 1974, residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an authorized dealer their holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemption is made for authorized dealers, diplomats, and those exempt sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the fo rmer Sterling Area (see footnote 3) and any income there- f rom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certifi- cate of security purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt f rom deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any fore ign na t ional temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt f rom surrender and deposit requirements, provided exemption has been claimed and granted by an author- ized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities, gold producers, and author- ized industral users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make available to the Government gold held in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require indi- v idual import licenses which are not normally granted. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travel- ers do not requre a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and p la t inum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1977 January 27. The Government announced increases in customs ta r i f fs on a wide range of commodities, includ- ing unmanu fac tu red tobacco (60 per c en t ), manu fac- tured tobacco (100 per cen t ), excise cigarettes (83 per cen t ), textiles (50 per c en t ), sugar (45 per cen t ), motor vehicles (increases averaging about 22 per cen t ), alco- holic beverages (60 per cen t ), certain foods tu f fs (30 per c e n t ), and raw ma te r ia ls for concession industries 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (increases rang ing f rom 10 to 50 per cen t ). The invoice entry fee, to which all imports are subject unless specifi- cally exempted by the Minister of Finance, was also increased from 1.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. January 28. The Exchange Control Act was amended to ensure that the proceeds of sale of all goods exported f rom Sierra Leone are received by the vendors in a cur- rency specified by the Bank of Sierra Leone w i th in three months. January 28. The schedule of import items subject to specific licensing issued on October 28, 1976 was amended to include a large number of products hitherto on open general license, such as foodstuffs, f ru i ts and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, animal and vegetable oils, certain chemicals, textiles, electronic equipment, motorcycles, clothing, and watches. September 30. Trade Restrictions with Portugal were lifted by Government Notice No. 1242. October 18. As a first step toward an eventual eco- nom ic un ion between Sierra Leone and Liberia under the Mano River Union Agreement, Sierra Leone intro- duced harmonized ta r i ff rates agreed with Liberia. This change resulted in increases in rates hitherto applied by Sierra Leone on imports of foods tu f fs and gray cotton, but reductions in rates on imports of chemicals, fertil- izers, glass and glassware, metallic bu i ld ing materials, and pumps. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 2977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar, and Singapore avails itself of wider margins. Since June 20, 1973, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate within announced margins. The closing selling and buying rates in the Singapore foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 30, 1977 were S$2.3305 and S$2.3295 per US$1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. The authorized banks are free to deal spot and for- ward in all currencies. Approval is not required for forward cover for any period in respect of import or export transactions. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par in the two countries concerned, at the commercial banks and w i th the monetary authorities. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Authority of Singapore administers exchange control.1 Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal current payments as well as certain capital pay- ments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Department of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls; the power to approve imports and exports has been dele- gated to the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency Singapore has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Singapore has made no changes in the list of Scheduled Territories (covering Singapore and all other former Sterling Area territories) which appears in the first schedule to the Singapore Exchange Control Act, other than adding Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thai- land. All payments to and from the Scheduled Terri- tories may be made in either a Scheduled Territory currency or a foreign currency.2 Certain payments to Romania must be made through special accounts. Pay- ments to other countries outside the Scheduled Terri- tories except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia must be obtained in either Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any specified currency.3 Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts; the latter may be denominated in Singapore dollars or other Scheduled Territory currencies. External Accounts may be credited with (1) approved payments by residents of Singapore and residents of other Scheduled Territories; (2) interest on the Accounts; (3) payments from other External Accounts; (4) proceeds from sales of gold and foreign currencies; and (5) payments, including cash, up to S$50,000 or its equivalent in any of the Scheduled Territory currencies. External Accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Singapore and resi- dents of other Scheduled Territories; (2) payments to other External Accounts; (3) the cost of purchases of foreign currencies and gold; and (4) withdrawals in cash. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in Rhodesia, South Africa, or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Import licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding b r a n ), refined sugar, and chlorine, irrespective of origin; and (2) all goods originating in, or consigned from Albania, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. License applications for goods under (2) must be sub- m i t ted through the intermediary of Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries (except the People's Republic of Ch ina). Permission to pay for permitted imports is readily given; for imports of Bulgarian, Hungarian, North Korean and Romanian origin this permission must be obtained from the exchange control authorities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments related to 1 With effect from June 1, 1978, all exchange control formalities were eliminated. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies of countries ou ts ide Scheduled Territories. the 3 The specified currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE commercial transactions and personal payments of a current nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are also permitted freely. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Authority, provided that no unau thor- ized capital outflow is involved. Payments up to S$50,000 are not subject to exchange control formalities. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$50,OOQ a person a year, and available in any currency, for travel outside the Scheduled Territories and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application; the same allo- cation is available only in foreign currencies for travel in the Scheduled Territories other than Singapore. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are freely permitted. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign and Scheduled Territory banknotes and coins, inc lud ing Singapore gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Belgium, Denma rk, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Ne ther lands, Norway, Sweden, the Un i ted K ingdom, and the United States are subject to quan t i ta t ive restric- tion. Exports of a few other items are restricted irre- spective of destination. Other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$50,000 in value to countries outside the Scheduled Territories; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in specified currencies and are sold to an authorized bank, normally w i th in six mon ths of ship- men t. For exports to Bulgaria, No r th Korea, Hunga ry, and Romania, exchange control approval is required irrespective of the value of the goods. Export proceeds in specified currencies up to S$3 m i l l ion for each recipi- ent may be retained and may be used to make current commercial payments and any other approved payments to residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requ iremen ts govern ing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds, including the fac i l i ty for the reten- tion and use of up to S$3 million in specified currencies for each recipient. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign and Scheduled Territory banknotes and coins, inc lud ing Singapore gold coins. 358 Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other Scheduled Territories. Inward transfers of capital from countries outside the Scheduled Territories (with the exception of borrowing from residents of such countries) do not require approval and the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes also is exempt from individual exchange control approval; however, government approval is required for investment in most residential property and in any vacant land other than land already designated prior to September 11, 1973 for industrial or commercial use. Investment by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodesia) in Singapore stocks and bonds, whether quoted or not, is freely permitted in any currency, including Singapore dollars f rom an External Account. Proceeds from sales of Singapore securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Borrowing f rom local banks by nonresident-controlled companies is not restricted. Singapore residents are permitted to invest without limit in certain prescribed external bonds, and up to certain prescribed limits in securities denominated in foreign currencies, in deposits in foreign currencies with authorized banks or w i th Asian Currency Units, in properties outside the Scheduled Territories, and in for- eign currency life and endowment policies. The exchange allowance for cash gifts and loans by individuals and charitable organizations resident in Singapore to indi- viduals and charitable organizations resident outside the Scheduled Territories is S$50,000 a remitter a calendar year, ava i lab le in any currency; the same allocation is available in foreign currencies where the beneficiaries are resident in the Scheduled Territories other than Singapore. Negotiable certificates of deposit in any cur- rency that have been issued in Singapore, as well as other bearer securities prescribed by the Monetary Authority, must be deposited with an authorized depositary. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in cur- rencies other than Singapore dollars from nonresidents of Singapore and, up to certain prescribed limits, deposits in foreign currencies from residents of Singa- pore. Asian Currency Units are required to obtain spe- cific exchange control approval for granting loans to residents of Singapore, except loans to finance outstand- ing export bills. The spot and forward foreign exchange positions of banks are supervised by the Monetary Authority. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access; payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by residents to nonresidents must take place in a Sched- uled Territory currency to an External Account or in any foreign currency, while receipts f rom nonresidents may be accepted in any currency, including by debit to an External Account. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. A S$150 commemorative gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, is legal tender; this coin is treated for exchange control purposes as gold rather than local cur- rency and its export and import is dealt with in the same way as that of gold so that it may be freely imported and exported by travelers. A few other legal tender gold coins issued subsequently by the Board of Commissioners of Currency are also treated as gold for exchange control purposes. The price of gold used for the manufac ture of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1977, this price was about S$530 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$470 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1977 January 1. The Monetary Authority of Singapore SINGAPORE issued the second edition of its Exchange Control Man- ual which delegated authority to authorized banks to approve a wider range of exchange transactions. The investment limit for individuals resident in Singapore was raised from S$250,000 to S$500,000. May 3. The Singapore Trade Department notified exporters that quotas for the export of knitted shirts, T-shirts, and undervests, excluding singlets of cotton and /or synthetic fibers to the United Kingdom for 1977, had been exhausted. May 13. It was announced that import and export perm i ts would no longer be required for bona fide trade samples, gifts, and specimens for test or analysis, in all cases not exceeding S$300 in value. Import and export permits were dispensed with for commercial shipping and airline documents, press photographs and negatives, news clippings, news prints, news transcription tapes, and human transplant materials. August 13. The EEC Commission established quotas on certain imports of textiles f rom Third World coun- tries, including Singapore. September 27. The EEC Commission's Regulation No. 2125/77 restored customs duty on knives, as the quota established in conjunction with preferential tar iff treatment had been exceeded. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of the Solomon Islands, the Solomon Islands Dollar. The parity rate for the Australian dollar is SI$1 = $A 1. Australian notes and coins circulate freely and are legal tender, but are being w i thdrawn from circulation by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority.2 Exchange transactions by commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are based upon quotations received f rom commercial banks in Australia. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, 1977, which came into force on March 1. The Solomon Islands Monetary Authority delegates extensive powers to the commercial banks operating in the Solomon Islands, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside the Solomon Islands, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign cur- rency. Export proceeds may be received in any fore ign currency or in Solomon Islands currency f rom an account w i th a bank domiciled outside the Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts The Solomon Islands Mone ta ry Au thor i ty permits nonresidents upon request to open nonresident accounts with authorized dealers, the balances of which may be freely transferred abroad. Approval is required for the crediting of these accounts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported f rom Rhodesia are con- cerned. Authorized dealers have powers to approve the great ma jo r i ty of transactions without reference to the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. Approvals of remittances generally are valid for two months. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from companies in the Solomon Islands. Permanent residents 3 are permitted to 1 Solomon Islands is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 The present legal tender status of Aus tra l ian currency scheduled to be w i thd rawn w i th effect f rom Ju ly 1, 1978. 3 All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have is 360 purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles, if supporting documents are provided. Trans- fers by postal order to persons permanently residing outside the Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, including Australian currency while it remains legal tender in the Solomon Islands, in excess of SI$250, with- out seeking approval from the exchange control authori- ties. Permission to take currency notes and coin in excess of this amount is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of the Solomon Islands may export goods without exchange control formality (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply w i th the terms of the General Au thor i ty issued by the Solomon Islands Mone- tary Au thor i ty. The essential conditions of this General Au thor i ty are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export, that the export price of the goods is not less than may reasonably have been expected, and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in the Solomon Islands. Where ex- porters are not in a position to comply with the condi- tions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed either for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including pas- sengers' personal effects. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign cur- rency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer in the Solomon Islands. Overseas residents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas capital are allowed without limit. Persons who have been granted temporary been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a citizen of a fore ign country who intends to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in the Solomon Islands for over f o ur years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume pe rmanent residence overseas in the near f u t u r e. Ownership of real proper ty or a business indicates pe rmanent residential status regardless of duration of residence in the Solomon Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution residential status by an authorized dealer or the Solo- mon Islands Mone tary Authority are permitted to repa- triate their surplus earnings without limit. New investment outside the Solomon Islands by permanent residents or by companies and other organi- zations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is per- mitted when there are likely benefits to the Solomon Islands other than a reasonably assured mone tary return. Where an investment is for portfolio purposes, the approval of the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority is needed before the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Approval for the acquisition of certain types of securities that are not available in the Solomon Islands is usually granted. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority is required for a resident of the Solomon Islands to bor- row funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresi- dent. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority to borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is involved, SOLOMON ISLANDS applicants are also referred to the Commercial Invest- ment Committee in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Industry, and Labour (subsequently renamed the Min- istry of Trade, Industry and Labour). Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the M in is t ry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Solomon Islands Monetary Authority is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold, but has not under- taken any transactions in gold. Changes during 1977 March 1. The Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations became effective, establishing the exchange and trade system. October 24. The Solomon Islands dollar was intro- duced as legal tender, and the Solomon Islands Mone- tary Authority began withdrawing Australian notes and coins f rom circulation. Under the legislation in force, legal tender status was to be withdrawn f rom Australian currency at the end of the transitional period which was due to end on June 30, 1978, if not extended. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118193 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling, and Somalia avails itself of wider mar- gins. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in some of the "convertible" currencies l with authorized dealers at fixed rates, tak ing into con- sideration rates in leading exchange markets in Europe. On December 31, 1977, the Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, unchanged since 1973. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (including bank ing commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which for- eign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to appo int authorized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also imple- ment the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, con- sisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign eco- nomic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and ex- ports and for transfers in respect of services. The Cen- tral Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling.2 Settlements w i th all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in 1 The "convertible" currencies are listed as Djibouti francs, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 2 There is also an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt. 362 "convertible" currencies;l however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and for- eign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospect- ing or consultancy services. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import of a few commodities from all sources is tem- porarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons.3 Ind iv idual licenses are required for all other commodi- ties. Some of these commodities may be imported only from specified sources.4 Certain other commodities are liberalized when originating in EEC countries. State agencies are responsible for all commodity imports. The state trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC ), is responsible for the import and distri- bution of certain commodities received under aid pro- grams. It also is the sole agent for the importation of an imal and vegetable oils and fats, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, cement, and certain other commodities; some are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton c lo th ). The Somali Petroleum Agency and the National Petroleum Agency are the only importers of fuel and fuel products, bat- teries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related materials. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construction materials. If goods imported d iffer in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation relating to 3 Butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 4 The permitted origin varies from commodity to commodity. The specified sources of supply generally are Egypt or the U.S.S.R. Made-up articles and related products may be imported only when originating in African or Arab countries, member countries of the EEC, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, Nor th Korea, or U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transac- tion meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise that has not actually passed through customs at the t ime of paymen t) provided that documen tary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance paymen ts for imports without documentary evidence of actual ship- ment are not permitted. Payments for imports f rom neighboring areas 5 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, ma in ly to prevent unau tho r ized capital movements; provided that balance of payments consid- erations perm i t, genuine requ iremen ts are met. Trans- fers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enterprises regis- tered under the Foreign Investment Law are norma l ly allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for t ravel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 4,000 a person. For tourist travel by resi- dents, there is an allowance of the equ iva lent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on the ir merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out w i thout au tho r i- zation any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out w i thout authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equ iva lent of So. Sh. 200 in fore ign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any des t ina t ion may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Ma rke t ing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, my r rh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. 5 Aden, D j ibou t i, Muka l la, Ethiopia, and Kenya. SOMALIA All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer w i th in five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may exempt ex- porters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance payment deposit of 15 per cent of the va lue of exports is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the author- ized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may grant exemptions f rom the sur- render requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travel- ers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arr iva l, to declare and o f fer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they br ing in. Capital Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended. In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the M in is try of P l ann ing and Coordina- tion. For "productive" enterprises, profits may be trans- ferred abroad freely up to a l im it of 30 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this t rans fer right is cumu la t ive for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is corre- spondingly increased. The capital itself may be trans- ferred abroad beginning five years a f ter the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years af ter the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption to any enterprise f rom import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and mun ic ipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. For inves tmen ts regis- tered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or a f ter March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resident employees. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numis- matic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry require permissions issued by the Central B ank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus- trial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 ka ra ts w i th in one month. Imports of gold are exempt f rom customs du ty when originating in EEC countries and from elsewhere are subject to a 10 per cent duty. Changes during 1977 January 29. In accordance with the new Investment Law, the l im it on transfer of profits of "productive" enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law was raised f rom 15 per cent to 30 per cent per annum of the capital invested. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per South African Rand. Since June 27, 1975 South A f r ica has followed a policy of keeping the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar constant. As at December 31, 1977 the South Afr ican Reserve Bank quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1, unchanged since September 22, 1975. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the curriencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. The commercial banks' spot public rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1977 were US$1.1529 buy ing, and US$1.1471 selling, per R l. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct fo rwa rd exchange operations among themselves and w i th overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides fo rwa rd cover for private sector transac- tions in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to author- ized dealers at a charge of 1 per cent per a n n um, for import and export t ransac t ions and for fore ign loans raised in their own names. There is also a market in which securities rand (the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other inves tmen ts in South A f r ica owned by nonresidents other than fo rmer residents of South A f r i c a) may be negotiated at free ly de te rm ined rates, usua l ly incu r r ing a d iscount on the o f f ic ial ma rket ra te; at the end of 1977, that discount was about 38 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 31 being R 1 = US$0.72. South Afr ica fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v ir tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Afr ica (def ined for exchange control purposes as inc lud ing South West A f r i c a ), Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei, and these are regarded as fo rm ing, w i th the Republic of South A f r ica, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Mone tary Area. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports ac t ing on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this au thor i ty to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the authorized dealers much of its l icens ing power. Exchange for licensed impor ts is made available by the au thor ized dealers upon proof of sh ipment or, where advance p a ym e nt is proposed, upon presentation of other do cum en t a ry evidence, wh ich must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area consti- tu te the Nonresident Area. Settlements w i th in the Rand Monetary Area take place in rand only.1 Swazi bank- notes and coins are convertible into rand at par without res tr ic t ion, but they are not legal tender in South A f r ica. Settlements by residents of the Rand Monetary Area w i th the Nonres ident Area, except Botswana and Rho- desia, may be made in rand to and f rom a Nonres ident Account and in any specified currency 2 and, for out- going payments only, in any other foreign currency.3 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or f rom a local Bo tswana Account, in Botswana cur- rency, in rand f rom a local Nonresident Account to a Botswana Account ( for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand f rom a local Nonresident Account ( for inward paymen ts o n l y ), or in any specified currency ( f or inward paymen ts on ly ). Settlements w i th Rhodesia may be made in rand to and f rom a local Rhodesian or other nonres ident account, in Rhodesian currency and, for inward payments only, in any specified currency. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Mone ta ry Area are divided into Bo tswana Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, Securities Rand Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing bank s) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited w i th all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents, w i th the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Afr ica of Botswana currency and of any specified cur- rency, and w i th payments f rom local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South Afr ican residents, for pay- ments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Afr ica for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited w i th all 1 In September 1974 Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni (p lu ral emalangeni), to replace the rand. Lilangeni bankno tes are free ly convertible into rand, at par, at the Monetary Au tho r i ty of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in South A f r i c a. Checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for payment in South Africa and Lesotho must be denominated in rand. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Fiji dollars, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy f rancs, Malawi kwacha, Ne the r lands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pak is tan rupees, Po r tugue se escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zaires, and Zamb ian kwacha. 3 Foreign currency is any currency other than cu r rency that is legal tender in a country in the Rand Mone tary Area. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Rhodesian currency and of any specified cur- rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South African residents, for pay- ments to the account holder while he is temporarily resi- dent in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Rhodesia, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all author- ized payments by South African residents, with the pro- ceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r ica of specified currency, and with payments from other Non- resident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South African residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Rhodesian Account or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any fore ign currency; and for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Securities Rand Accounts are the accounts of nonresi- dents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emigrants f rom that Area, to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited w i th the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in South Africa, owned by non- residents, excluding former residents of South Africa, and by imm ig ran ts within three years of arrival. Johan- nesburg Stock Exchange dealers are permitted to quote prices for securities rand and its members are permitted to buy and sell securities rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to t rans fer securities rand balances f rom one Securities Rand Account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized bank. In addition to transfer to another Securities Rand Account, funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvest- ment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad); to acquire central government, muni- cipal, or public u t i l i ty stock with a ma tu r i ty of five years or more (the redemption proceeds of which are trans- ferable abroad when held for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption); and to tender for five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Treasury (the redemption proceeds of which are also t rans fe rab le ). The proceeds of South African securities held by immi- grants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Securities Rand Accounts, with the excep- 366 tion of funds of persons who had been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants f rom the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied.4 They must be credited with that part of an emigrant's assets which exceeds the amount that is transferable on departure. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or invested in any securities which are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Blocked rand may also be used, within a limit of R 30,000 for each emigrant fam i ly un i t, or R 10,000 for an individual, to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to non- residents of South Africa only, of five-year nonresident bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repay- able at face value. The redemption proceeds are trans- ferable in the currency of the monetary area in which the holder is resident. Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com- modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported f rom Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1978, as announced in December 1977, distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: ( 1) Goods which may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 524 tar iff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 31.7 per cent of 1977 imports. (2) Goods which may be imported only under permit but subject to automatic licensing for bona fide mer- chants and manufac turers. These fall under an unspeci- fied number of tar iff headings or subheadings and corre- spond on a value basis to 57.3 per cent of 1977 imports. (3) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined f rom time to time. These account for about 5.2 per cent in value of 1977 imports. (4) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods individually are issued. Generally these are issued when the imported goods are not available in 4 The local sale proceeds of South African assets, including South African securities, owned by residents of Botswana must be credited to a Securities Rand Account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution South Africa. They cover some 5.8 per cent of 1977 imports. Upon presentation to his bank of the necessary con- signment documents (proof of impo r ta t ion ), and an import permit where required, an importer is automa- tically granted exchange to pay for the import. Pay- ments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except for certain capital goods, and provided that the terms are customary in the trade concerned. There is an import surcharge of 15 per cent on the value of all imports except those subject to a GATT binding and other agreements to which South Africa is a party. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. All payments to nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Authority is dele- gated to the authorized dealers to approve certain cur- rent invisible payments without limitation and others up to established limits. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without ref- erence to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank and the profits or divi- dends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since Decem- ber 31, 1974 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked funds or securities rand, or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable at the official market rate of exchange to the owner's country of residence. Limited amoun ts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 500 for an adult (R 200 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Zaire, and Zambia. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 100 a day, with a m a x im um of R 3,000 in a calendar year. The applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring territories mentioned above is R 500 a year. Residents leaving South Afr ica for destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area may take out not more than the equ iva lent of R 200 in banknotes. The amount of South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not SOUTH AFRICA exceed R 50 but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes repre- senting their earnings in South Africa. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Bophuthatswana, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transke i). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to all destinations but no import certificate is required where the goods are exported to the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods to coun- tries outside the Rand Monetary Area other than Bots- wana is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months f rom the date of shipment and /or seven days from the date of accrual. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 50 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei. Capital 5 All inward loan transfers require specific approval,6 while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are 5 For exchange control purposes, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Mone- tary Area. Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public com- panies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds and /or participations in mortgage bonds, and national savings certificates. The terms scrip and share certificates include any temporary or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 0 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for property development, speculation, or consumer credit. Authorized dealers gen- erally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be sur- rendered. Outward t rans fe rs of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed; transfers to Bophuthatswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei do not require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South Afr ican (or o ther) shares on external stock exchanges are gen- erally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South Afr ican residents to exercise rights arising f rom existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, sub- ject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South Afr ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring coun- tries (excluding Bophu tha tswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Transkei) funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South A f r icans are considered by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. For three years af ter their arrival in South Africa, imm igran ts (excluding former South A f r ican residents) may dispose of their foreign assets (including foreign cash f u n d s) held outside the Rand Monetary Area or otherwise invest them (including by purchase of South A f r ican securities ab road ). The proceeds f rom the sale of all South A f r ican securities brought in by immigrants must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts; there are no restrictions on the free use of such funds locally for the first three years of the immigrant's residence on amounts up to R 20,000 or, subject to Reserve Bank approval, on additional amounts, to enable the immi- grant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents of South A f r ica to residents must be credited to Securities Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized dealers without reference to the South A f r i- can Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South Afr ica of the proceeds on ma tu r i ty of government, muni- cipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certi- ficates (except those issued on October 1, 1974), pro- vided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an em ig ran t) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they were registered con- tinuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South Afr ica by certain 368 "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of securities rand balances; and transfers of up to R 2,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South Africa where the total inheritance does not exceed R 2,000. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may t ran s fer R 10,000 outside South Africa as a settling-in allowance, and those with larger assets may t rans fer 50 per cent of the total, up to R 30,000 for fam i l ies or R 10,000 for individuals; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account, and the value of any foreign assets is deducted from the applicable settling-in allowance. Em igran ts may, however, utilize such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a fam i ly unit, or R 10,000 for individuals, to subscribe to the five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Government on a tender basis (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The free transfer of income f rom an emigrant's blocked assets a n d / or a South Afr ican Trust is limited to a maxi- mum of R 100,000 for a fam i ly un it a year. An emi- grant fam i ly or a person can export only one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 10,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. The South Afr ican Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at ma tur i ty to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances or undistri- buted cu r rent prof i ts, or for the t rans fer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of nonresident-owned securi- ties is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. There are normally four ways in which holders of securities rand ( inc lud ing holders resident in Botswana) can repatriate funds f rom South A f r ica: (1) by tak ing up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974) for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; ( 3) by exporting South A f r ican shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them outside South Africa at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation; and (4) by selling the funds to another nonresident for foreign currency. On ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 31, 1977, the discount on securities rand in terms of the official exchange rate was about 38 per cent. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, residents of South Afr ica other than the monetary authorities, author- ized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewe lry will be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's re tu rn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Z amb i a ), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufac tured fo rm and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Furthermore, authorized dealers may, without reference to the Reserve Bank, allow resi- dents to export for sale to numismatists currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant dur ing a calendar year; they may also allow residents to export one Krugerrand coin du r ing a calendar year to a nonresident in lieu of a monetary g i f t. The gold m in ing industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, within one month of production. As a special conces- sion mines may retain some of the production for the purpose of m in t ing gold coins. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand without a face value, that are legal tender but do not circulate in South A f r ica; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Changes during 1977 February 20. South A f r ica abolished its 20 per cent import deposit scheme. March 30. The Department of Commerce announced that importers dealing in capital goods must provide proof that the particular item they wished to impo rt cannot be supplied by local industry and that the new imports would do no more than replace depleted stock. March 30. The following changes were made in the control over t rans fe rs of money by em igran ts: ( 1) The settling-in allowance for a single person was reduced f rom R 30,000 for a f am i ly un it to a max imum of R 10,000; a fur ther R 10,000 could be invested in non- resident bonds. Donations received by em igran ts du r ing SOUTH AFRICA the three years prior to their date of emigration would be excluded f rom their total assets for the purpose of calculating the settling-in allowance. (2) The free trans- fer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets and /or a South African Trust was limited to a maximum of R 100,000 for a family unit a year. (3) An emigrant fam i ly or a person could export only one motor vehicle, with a max imum value of R 10,000, provided that it had been purchased at least one year prior to emigration. March 30. Nonresident-owned or controlled South Afr ican companies could only remit dividends and profits on income earned af ter January 1, 1975, which date would be moved forward annually by one year on January 1 of each year; previously, the cutoff date had been January 1, 1960 (see August 29 entry, be low ). March 30. Transfers to nonresidents from South Afr ican legacies were made subject to the restrictions applicable to securities rand. March 30. A special import surcharge of 15 per cent was established on the value of all imports except those subject to a GATT binding and other agreements and customs conventions to which South Afr ica was a party. The surcharge was announced as a temporary measure to be reviewed when other budgetary sources of revenue could be increased. April 26. The legal requirement on the Reserve Bank to hold gold equal to 25 per cent of its net liabilities was suspended. It was announced that South Afr ica would revalue its official gold holdings f rom the current statu- tory price of US$45 an ounce as soon as the Second Amendment to the IMF Articles of Agreement became effective. June 9. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs announced a second round of import allocations for consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages equal to 30 per cent of the total value of permits issued in 1976. June 10. Discussions with the EEC Commission led to an agreement that South Afr ica would reduce its exports of steel to EEC countries. August 29. It was announced that the cutoff date of January 1, 1975 for the transfer abroad of dividends of foreign-owned or controlled companies would not be moved forward each year as had been announced on March 30. August 31. It was announced that all inheritances due to nonresidents and not exceeding an amount of R 2000 would be fully transferable. October 11. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs announced a third round of import permits for consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages equal to 30 per cent of the total value of permits issued in 1976 (when, in fact, only two issues were made and the value of import permits amounted to 70 per cent of the total issue for 1975). 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta. Spain avails itself of wider margins. The official intervention limits for the U.S. dollar have been suspended since January 22, 1974. The official buying and selling rates of the Bank of Spain on December 30, 1977 were Ptas 80.782 and Ptas81.042, respectively, per US$1. Official buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies l are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain ac t ing in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles direct transactions. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buying and selling rates for bank- notes in specified foreign currencies. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in fore ign markets for spot and forward transactions related to commercial operations for up to 360 days; forward trans- actions with customers are restricted to currencies ad- mitted to the Madrid fore ign exchange market and to permitted import and export transactions with a maturity up to 180 days. The forward peseta position of an individual bank must not reflect a net buy ing or selling balance at the close of each day. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an interministerial commission. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of adm in is t ra t ive fun c t ions con- nected w i th exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operations, in particular, the hand l ing of external reserves. It is also responsible for the authoriza- tion of foreign currency loans to residents for nontrade purposes. Trade controls are adm in is tered by the Ministry of Commerce. The M in is t ry also is in charge of the con- trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, fore ign financing of trade, and the regis- tra t ion of fore ign inves tmen ts in Spain. Contracts re la t ing to technological ma t te rs must be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu... ' e ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 370 agreement countries may be made in any specified cur- rency1 but they are usually made in the currency of the coun try of origin or destination. Settlements w i th bilateral paymen ts agreement coun t r ies2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are six types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Payments in Spain (A Accoun ts), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accoun ts), External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Ac- counts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, Bank Ac- counts in Pesetas with Andorra, and Emigrants' Accounts. A Accounts may be freely credited w i th (1) the countervalue in pesetas of convertible currencies sold on the foreign exchange market; (2) amounts transferred f rom other A Accounts; ( 3) amounts transferred f rom B Accounts; and (4) any interest payable on the account. These accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) any pay- ment in pesetas in favor of Spanish juridical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain ( inc lud ing payments relating to foreign invest- ment in Spa in ); and (2) transfers to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign currency for remit- tance abroad are not permitted. B Accounts may be free ly credited with (1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under existing rules are transferable abroad under powers delegated to authorized banks; (2) amounts transferred f rom other B Accounts; and (3) any interest payable on the account. The crediting of amounts originating f rom A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be freely debited for (1) the countervalue in pesetas of foreign currency acquired on the foreign exchange market; (2) any payments in pesetas in favor of Spanish juridical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain, including those relating to foreign investment in Spain; (3) transfers to other B Accounts; and (4) transfers to A Accounts. All other transactions on A or B Accounts require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. Private banks are required to make special noninterest- bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equal to 100 per cent of the increases af ter October 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in A and B Accounts (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or t ime deposits at less than three months' notice), and in an amount equal to 50 per cent of the increases in such deposits when held for three months or more (100 per cent of any increase after February 7, 1973). Fur- thermore, banks are prohibited from pay ing interest on any nonresident-held peseta deposits in A or B Accounts, whether demand, time, or savings deposits. 2 Colombia and Equatorial Guinea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold funds accruing in Spain to nonresidents that are not transferable abroad ("blocked pesetas"). Prior approval is needed to open such an account. Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas; (2) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owne r ;3 (3) receipts from the National Lottery; (4) any nontransferable wages, salaries, pensions, rents, or dividends accruing to the account holder; (5) interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (6) transfers f rom any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical person); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of urban and rural properties that do not represent invest- ment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (applicable to rural properties only if the account holder is of Spanish na t iona l i ty); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization. The accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Cur- rencies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, nonresident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, includ- ing the transfer to an A Account. Overdrafts are pro- hibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts—Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens working abroad. 3 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. SPAIN Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most im- ports are admitted under the following arrangements: ( 1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Pro- vided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, and also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.4 All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports f rom countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.5 With certain excep- tions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are issued freely. Imports of raw cotton, cer- tain other agricultural products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropri- ate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled with an author- ized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of domiciliation; exempt f rom domiciliation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 500,000 provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Some transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to individual authorization, for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large propor- tion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services, trans- 4 The import f r ee list does not apply to the payments agreement countries or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, People's Republic of China, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, San Marino, Tibet, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 5 There are separate global quotas for imports of the same com- modities from EEC countries. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN fers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies and acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased with con- vertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting f rom the sale of foreign exchange, or with pesetas released from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also transferable abroad w i thout restriction. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided that the purchase price has been paid in full and the owner has no outstanding tax liabili- ties applicable to the property. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is Ptas 50,000 a person a year, but additional amounts are approved freely for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equiva- lent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For larger amounts, the banks must apply for approval. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain (Ptas 10,000 for persons going to Ando r ra ). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Direct foreign investment for the purpose of establish- ing Spanish companies is authorized except in those cases where prior administrative authorization is required; for participation in public service companies in general such investment is allowed only up to 40 per cent of the capital participation. Foreign investments must be made f rom abroad in the form of foreign capital, equipment manu fac tu red abroad, technical assistance, and other means approved by the Spanish authorities. The paid-up capital must not be less than Ptas 100 million and the Spanish company may not make payments in respect of technology to the foreign investor or to its subsidiary or 372 associated companies (except for duly specified and justified services) and in no case may the payments be regular or related to the level of activity of the Spanish company. The company in question must create at least 100 jobs for a permanent staff at the time of coming into operation and must maintain a positive balance of for- eign currency after one year of operation. The capital of the company may be less than Ptas 100 million provided that ( 1) af ter one year of operation total exports repre- sent at least 50 per cent of turnover and the turnover figure is not less than Ptas 100 million and (2) the company creates at least 1,000 jobs at the time of com- mencing production. Foreign direct investments are also authorized in Spanish companies that are in the process of increasing their capital. This may be effected through the purchase of shares or investment in the capital provided that the company creates 100 permanent jobs, that the foreign currency account shows a positive balance after one year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company is increased by at least 30 per cent and that at least Ptas 100 million is invested in the purchase of shares. Special foreign participation ratios and regulations apply to certain specific activities.6 Foreign investment in Spanish companies manufacturing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registration only; within 30 days the registra- tion may be deemed an authorization if no notification to the contrary has been received. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, while invest- ment in firms dealing with public information and in certain public services is subject to specific regulations. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, f rom the liquidation of foreign direct investments made for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted freely up to the percentages applicable to direct investment. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible 6 The foreign content of investment by Spanish companies with foreign participation is determined in the following manner: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; (2) if foreign participation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered foreign to the extent of such participation; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered as domestic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pesetas or with pesetas resulting f rom the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, f rom the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for fur ther purchases of shares.7 Purchases by nonresidents of bonds and other fixed- income securities representing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this para- graph, and the fu ll sales proceeds are transferable. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, within certain limits,8 freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or f rom balances in nonresident peseta accounts (A or B Ac- coun ts). The Ministry of Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a docu- ment certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, rural properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the fu ll sales proceeds are trans- ferable if the initial purchase was financed with con- vertible foreign currency or with pesetas f rom an Ex- ternal Account in Convertible Pesetas, an A Account, or a B Account. If the initial purchase was financed with pesetas f rom an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferable. Outward capital transfers by residents require ap- proval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. No formal authorization is required for such invest- ments when under taken by Spanish firms which have been granted an ind iv idual "export card" and have net assets in Spain of at least Ptas 100 million, provided that the firm's total foreign investments do not exceed 40 per cent of its assets in Spain. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio invest- ments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. However, registered investment funds with assets of at least Ptas 1 billion are permitted to place up to 10 per cent of their assets in foreign securities that are officially quoted on specified stock exchanges abroad. Approval of requests by nonbank resident firms to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria s im i lar 7 However, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may t rans fer the liquidation proceeds abroad. 8 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality are freely permitted by a general authorization as follows, if financed with f u n ds imported f rom abroad: (1) one plot not ex- ceeding 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwelling for personal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apa r tment building, and (3) up to three apa r tmen ts in a single apartment building. There are separate regulations for the purchase of business premises. SPAIN to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to non- residents other than certain export credits granted directly to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for trans- actions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the M in is try of Commerce. Also, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce. Local bank credit extended at medium term or long term to Spanish firms with foreign participation in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives, but domestic bank credit for up to 18 months may be granted, irrespective of the degree of foreign participation, on the same conditions as to wholly Spanish-owned firms. For transfers abroad of bona fide inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Only the Bank of Spain is allowed to import or export gold, and indus- trial requirements are met by imports effected by the Bank of Spain. There is a global quota for imports of gold f rom member countries of the EEC. Changes during 1977 January 19. The suspension of import duties on raw cocoa beans was extended to March 1977 by Royal Decree No. 3093/76. January 21. Royal Decree No. 3099/77 concerning foreign investment was published. Its purpose was to facilitate the entry of foreign capital by means of a general automatic authorization that freed certain invest- ments f rom the formalities previously enforced. Under the provisions of the Decree, direct fore ign investment for the purpose of establishing Spanish companies with more than 50 per cent of foreign capital was authorized auto- matically except in those cases where prior administra- tive authorization was required for the installation. Such foreign investments must be made from abroad by means of foreign capital, equipment manufac tured abroad, technical assistance, and other means approved by the Spanish authorities. The paid-up capital must be not less than Ptas 100 million and the Spanish company should not make payments in respect of technology to the for- eign investor or to its subsidiary or associated companies (except in respect of du ly specified and justified services) 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN and in no case should payments be regular or related to the level of activity of the Spanish company. To benefit from the Royal Decree, the company must create at least 100 permanent jobs at the time of coming into operation and must ma in ta in a positive balance of foreign currency a f ter one year of operation. The capital of the company might be less than Ptas 100 million pro- vided that ( 1) after one year of operation its exports would not be less than at least 50 per cent of turnover and the turnover figure would represent not less than Ptas 100 million and (2) the company would have created at least 1,000 jobs at the time of commencing production. Foreign direct investments were also authorized in Spanish companies that were in the process of increas- ing their capital through the purchase of shares and investment in the capital, provided that the company created 100 permanent jobs, that there would be a posi- tive balance of foreign currency in the first year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company were increased by at least 30 per cent, and that at least Ptas 100 million was invested in the purchase of shares. Previously, authorization was limited to 50 per cent or less of the capital of a new company, all investments in excess of this limit requiring the specific authority of the Council of Ministers. January 27. A resolution of the Ministry of Com- merce liberalized the import of certain pharmaceutical and household goods. February 2. Global import quotas were announced for 1977. February 22. The Council of Ministers adopted a short-term economic program to revitalize the Spanish economy. Some fiscal reforms were introduced. April 12. Royal Decree No. 612/77 of the Ministry of Commerce extended the temporary 20 per cent tariff surcharge for six months, with effect f rom April 8. April 15. Royal Decree No. 653/77 of the Ministry of Commerce established quotas for 1977 on steel products that were free of import duties. April 25. The Bank of Spain announced new regula- tions (effective May 2) to ensure that the forward ex- change market was used only for covering the exchange risk incurred under authorized transactions. Forward transactions were limited to six months, although con- tracts could be renewed. Foreign currency contracted forward could be used only to collect or pay the princi- pal transaction. At the close of each day, the forward peseta position of each bank might not reflect a net selling balance and the foreign currency position might not show a net buying balance. July 12. The peseta was allowed to float downward in the exchange market. The opening buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were set at Ptas 87.30 and Ptas 87.50, respectively, per US$1, representing a depre- ciation of the peseta against the U.S. dollar of 19.7 per cent compared with the final fixing of the previous business day (July 8). July 19. A Royal Decree stipulated that the prices of goods and services in the next three months could be increased only in line with rises in production costs. July 23. The 20 per cent temporary tariff surcharge was eliminated. July 28. Spain formally applied for full membership in the EEC. October 25. The Government's new economic pro- gram was announced, which included a ceiling on wages of 22 per cent for 1978, a limitation of the budget deficit to Ptas 73 billion, a 17 per cent limit on the growth of the money supply, and a number of other fiscal measures. October 28. The Government reduced from 60 to 30 the number of items whose prices may be increased only with cabinet approval. Items still subject to price con- trols included milk, coffee, sugar, cooking oil, bread, frozen fish, fertilizers, cement, gasoline, electricity, and train fares. November 14. A bill on urgent tax measures was approved by the Senate. The bill provided for increased tax receipts, heavier taxation on upper-income brackets, and certain other taxes. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Sri Lanka Rupee. Since November 15, 1977 the official exchange rate for the Sri Lanka rupee has been permitted to float. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, and the Central Bank of Ceylon intervenes in major currencies to prevent erratic movements in the exchange rates. On December 31, 1977, the spot buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers were SLRs 15.53 and SLRs 15.59, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, on the basis of demand and supply conditions in Sri Lanka and movements in the international exchange markets. The Central Bank has established margins between buying and selling rates equivalent to SL Rs 3 per US$100 (1.875 per mill) and SL Rs 5.50 per £ stg. 100 (1.893 per m i l l ). Equivalent margins have been established for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, and the Indian rupee. No other charges are made by either the Central Bank or the commercial banks. The Central Bank stands ready to provide forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars only. The forward rate reflects the difference between U.S. interest rates and local interest rates. At the end of 1977 the Central Bank sold U.S. dollars forward at a premium over spot rate of SL Re 1 per US$100 a month, and purchased U.S. dollars forward at a discount against spot of SLRe 1 per US$100 a month. The option for delivery during the max imum period of two months is permitted at an added marg in of SLRe 1 per US$100 for the first month and SL Rs 2 per US$100 for the second month. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commer- cial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance w i th the exchange control pro- cedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements l and with Egypt must be made through the relevant special accounts. Pay- ments in respect of trade w i th Pak is tan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts 1 People's Republic of China, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. from, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Pakistan (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Iran, and Nepal) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary units or in the currency of a member of the Asian Clear- ing Union; for settlements with Pakistan, these arrange- ments are applicable to invisibles only. For settlements with all other countries (except Rho- desia) payments for imports may be made in any for- eign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign curren- cies.2 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency.2 Special procedures apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by foreign banks, firms, and companies registered outside Sri Lanka and by persons residing abroad. A local credit to these accounts, which is tantamount to approval for remittance abroad, and debits in respect of remit- tances abroad require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds may be used in Sri Lanka for certain investments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. A single initial remittance up to a maximum of SL Rs 10,000 is allowed, subject to prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earn- ings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.3 Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the t ime of arrival; also, interest payments in the two 3 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders. Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 At present in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA convertible currencies may be credited. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for payments outside or within Sri Lanka in foreign currency, while the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of three years from the date of arrival of the account holder in Sri Lanka. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for a list of specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior license include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohols, and cer- tain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items (rice, sugar, flour, and wheat gra ins) and fertilizers. Imports of specified commodities 4 are restricted to government or state corporations; these commodities are referred to as "reserved items." Public sector imports shipped f rom places served by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation must be carried in vessels owned or chartered by the Corporation, if shipping space is available. Prior approval procedures apply to a list of imports of capital goods. The Local Investment Advi- sory Committee approves the import when the invest- ment is local and the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment. No prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000 in value. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to approval by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Imports can be made only against sight letters of credit, except for specified transactions. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a Nonresident Account when the applicant furnishes a copy of the application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consignment is less than SL Rs 2,500 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange con- trol permission. For travel abroad, nationals of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic fore ign exchange allowance of SL Rs 2,000 an adult and SL Rs 1,000 a child under 12 years of age, once every two years, for travel to Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Thailand. In addition, a basic allowance of £ stg. 500 an adult and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age is allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is pro- vided to pay for fares. The prior approval by the 4These include mainly rice, wheat flour (but not corn flour), unre- fined sugar, refined sugar, Maldive fish, dried fish, bidi leaves, petroleum products, and films. 376 Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant institution. Banks can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman or director of the company recommending the particular trip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of SL Rs 350 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for the above-mentioned neighboring countries and US$75 a day, also up to a maximum of 30 days, for other destinations. These limits apply to chairmen, directors, and partners of companies; other business executives may obtain up to SL Rs 225 a day for neigh- boring countries and up to US$50 a day, up to a maxi- mum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treatment abroad, within certain guidelines, if a government specialist certifies that equally effective treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. Other types of travel allowances require prior consideration by the Central Bank. Exchange and passage for educational purposes at a recognized university or technical institute at under- graduate or postgraduate levels, or for specialized tech- nical t ra in ing not available in Sri Lanka and of use to the country, is allowed by the exchange control authori- ties. Foreign exchange is made available up to £ stg. 100 a month for subsistence for graduate students (£ stg. 75 a month for undergradua tes), in addition to actual fees and allowances for books. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a maximum of SL Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a wife, £ stg. 145 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 131 for a girl in a senior school, £ stg. 100 for a boy in a jun ior school, and £ stg. 90 for a girl in a jun ior school, up to a maximum of one third of the gross monthly income of the parent; any excess of the total of such remittances over one third of gross monthly income is treated as an antici- patory transfer against the non-national's entitlement to remit assets at the time of repatriation. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount that may eventually be repatriated upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles, subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances may be effected through commer- cial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to a period of not more than two years from the date of application, provided the following docu- ments are furnished: (1) an audited copy of the com- pany's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (2) a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting of the company declaring the profit, a certificate f rom the auditors con- firming that the profit has been declared in respect of the year under review, less tax, and that it does not include any undistributed profits or any appreciation due to the sale of any of the company's reserves or any apprecia- tion due to the sale of any of the company's fixed assets; (3) a certificate of balance of all the accounts with commercial banks in Sri Lanka; (4) a certified copy of the names and addresses of nonresident shareholders and the amounts invested by each of them; (5) compu- tation of the remittable profits; and (6) a tax clearance certificate in respect of the profits to be remitted. Remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of rupee companies may be allowed without prior exchange control approval if such dividends are solely out of profits of the year in question, do not include any undistributed profits of previous years, do not include transfers f rom reserves and profits arising f rom the sale of fixed assets, and if the following documents are fu r- nished: (1) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the dividend relates; and (2) a tax clearance cer- tificate in respect of the dividend payment covering the full amount due to all nonresident shareholders of the company, along with a schedule indicating the names of the nonresident shareholders and the net amount of dividends due to each of them. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry. Conver- sion is authorized up to SL Rs 500. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding «£ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 for children under 12) out of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to countries with which Sri Lanka ma in ta ins bilateral pay- ments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. Most exports require an export license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports; SRI LANKA licenses for tea are issued by the Commissioner of Tea Exports and those for coconut products by the Coconut Marketing Board. Rubber exports to the People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are effected under state trading. The State Gem Corpo- ration has control of exports of gems and jewelry. Private sector gem exports require prior approval and the Corporation handles exports in the name of gem miners who wish to export gems. Re-exports of non- monetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered, usually within six months of the date of shipment, except in the case of tea exports to London auctions when the prescribed period is four months. Payments can be made either in Sri Lanka rupees from accounts of a foreign bank maintained with a local bank, or from accounts of persons resident outside Sri Lanka that are maintained with authorized dealers and are approved by the Central Bank, or in designated foreign currencies. Special terms apply to exports made in respect to provisions of trade and payments agree- ments or to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistan cur- rency is not permitted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coins may be brought in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj- ects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incorporated in Sri Lanka. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Govern- ment may not be transferred abroad, but may be rein- vested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are con- sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment Advi- sory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning are also granted special facilities in respect of remit- tances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to em ig ran ts upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 10 per cent of passage fa re to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent to £ stg. 300 an adult and £ stg. 150 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects (up to SLRs 5,000, and jewelry up to SL Rs 7,500) can be exported as well. The Department of Exchange Control can approve transfer of pension in fu l l, or £ stg. 100 a month, inc lud ing pension and other income, subject to production of an income-tax clearance certificate, if necessary, in respect of the amount to be remitted. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets represent- ing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to t ran s fer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and Ind ia, apply to Ind ian fam i l ies re turn ing to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Central Bank. The People's Bank, the sole importer of gold, has not imported any nonmonetary gold since July 1972. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles con ta in ing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1977 February 1. Coconut cake and tallow were trans- ferred f rom the B category to the A category and there- fore became exempt from the requirement to surrender Foreign Exchange Entitlement certificates. March 12. The Sri Lanka rupee was revalued f rom SLRs 14.97 = £ s tg. 1 to SLRs 12.51 = £ stg. 1. April 27. Payments for imports of books and periodi- cals from India could be made only up to 80 per cent of the value of the invoice when denominated in Sri Lanka rupees, but at the prices marked when denomi- nated in Indian rupees. June 15. Exports of precious and semiprecious stones were exempted f rom Central Bank prior clearance, pro- vided the application was approved by the State Gem 378 Corporation and the Controller of Imports and Exports, and adequa te proof of sale was provided. August 19. The Sri Lanka rupee was devalued from SLRs 12.51 = £ s tg. 1 to SLRs 12.77 = £ stg. 1. This exchange rate action was followed by a series of changes on August 29, September 7, September 12, and October 31. On November 2, the rate was adjusted to SLRs 15.70 = £s tg. 1. November 4. The Sri Lanka rupee was revalued vis-a-vis the pound sterling f rom SL Rs 15.70 = «£ stg. 1 to SLRs 15.53 = <£ stg. 1. November 15. A ma jor reform of the exchange and t rade system was introduced, as follows: (1) Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates were abolished and the Convertible Rupee Account system was discontinued. The exchange rate was unified at SLRs 16 = US$1 and SL Rs 29.05 = £ stg. 1. With effect f rom that date the Sri Lanka rupee was allowed to float, ref lec t ing supply and demand conditions in Sri Lanka; the Central Bank would intervene only to eliminate short-term disturbances. The U.S. dollar was in troduced as the in te rven t ion currency and the Central Bank would in te rvene in fo rwa rd transactions only in that currency. (2) The impo rt system was s ign if ican t ly liberalized. Prior l icens ing would be required only for certain speci- fied commod i t ies, in c lud ing those sub ject to control for secur i ty reasons, precious metals, alcoholic beverages, certain consumer goods, fe r t i l ize rs, and the ma in food import items (rice, flour, wheat, and s u g a r ). The public monopoly on a number of commodities was also termi- na ted. Prior approval by specified inves tment advisory committees for imports of capital goods valued at over SL Rs 700,000 was introduced. Impor ts could be made only aga inst sight letters of credit, except for imports valued at under SL Rs 2,500 for direct use by the importer. (3) The foreign exchange allocation for travel was liberalized. Na t iona ls of Sri Lanka were authorized a basic allowance of SL Rs 2,000 an adult and SL Rs 1,000 a child under 12 years of age once every two years for travel to neighboring countries and <£ stg. 500 an adult («£ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age) for travel to other countries once every four years. Previously, no allocation had been provided. Add i t ional allowances were provided for fares. The regulations with respect to business travel and travel for medical reasons were also liberalized. (4) The allowance for emigrants was increased from £ stg. 100 a fam i ly un it to «£ stg. 300 an adult and £ stg. 150 a child under 12 years of age. Exchange allocations to cover fares and an additional 10 per cent for excess baggage were also authorized. The Central Bank was empowered to authorize remittances of income generated in Sri Lanka up to £ stg. 100 a month to the extent of the rupee resources remaining in Sri Lanka. Remittances of profits and dividends, previously subject ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to an administrative ceiling of 12.5 per cent of paid-up capital and reserves, were liberalized. Payments for miscellaneous purchases abroad would not require prior authorization of the Central Bank. The exchange allo- cation for studies abroad, previously granted only in exceptional circumstances, was set at <£ stg. 100 a month plus the cost of books, fees, and tuition for postgraduate courses and £, stg. 75 a month for under- graduate courses at a recognized university or for spe- cialized technical training not available in Sri Lanka, Prior Central Bank approval would be required, (5) The limit on reconversion into foreign exchange of unspent rupees held by tourists was increased from SL Rs 300 to SL Rs 500. SRI LANKA 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System1 The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound. The Sudanese pound is defined by law as having a gold content of 2.115368 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar is LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Fixed official rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central b a n k ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government on December 31, 1977 were US$2.867268 selling, and US$2.875887 buy- ing, per LSd 1. Most exchange transac t ions take place at an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 as a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per US$1 (i.e., 15 per cen t) to the official rate. Only the export of cotton lint is transacted at the official rate. Exchange taxes and subsidies of 65 per cent on the official rate apply to remittances by Sudanese nationals work ing abroad and certain other invisibles, resu l t ing in an effective rate of LSd 1 = US$1.74. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. The issuance of registration fo rms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, but all regis- tration forms and licenses must be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Import payments and other fore ign pay- ments are approved w i th in the f ramewo rk of an annual fore ign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan ma in ta ins a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresi- dent account or in any foreign currency, wh i le receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any con- vertible currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline and Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible curren- cies, while all other payments are settled through the bilateral account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to ma in ta in accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited with convertible curren- cies. Other foreign personnel working in Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in Sudan, may m a in t a in resident current or savings ac- counts in Sudanese pounds. Time and demand deposits denominated in convertible currencies may be opened iW i th effect f rom June 8, 1978, the official ra te was ad jus ted to LSd 1 — US$2.50 and the exchange tax /subs idy was raised to 10 piastres per dollar, resulting in an effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2.00. 380 for foreign individuals, companies, and organizations res ident abroad, Sudanese nationals work ing abroad, and expatriates, other than Egyptians. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined by fo rmer residents. Ea rn ings acc ru ing to these accounts may be used w i th in Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to l im i ts established in each case by the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Except for the crediting of interest, debits and credits to Blocked Accoun ts requ ire approva l. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protec- tive reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted impor ts generally are licensed or accepted for registra- t ion in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Imports of certain consumer goods, raw ma ter ia ls, spare parts, indu s t r ial goods, and com- mercial trucks are eligible for importation on a barter basis. Certain imports are permitted only when accept- able fore ign f inanc ing is obtained. Sugar and wheat are impor ted only by a state agency. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the M in is t ry of Finance and Na t ional Economy and be validated by the Ex- change Control Depar tment of the Bank of Sudan. '"Nil-value" licenses, are issued to Sudanese work ing abroad who have obtained the exchange f rom non- Sudanese sources or to an importer listed in the Import- er's Register, provided again that the exchange has been acquired f rom non-Sudanese sources. These licenses, wh ich also requ i re va l ida t ion, are issued for a large number of consumer goods, raw ma ter ia ls, spare parts, and indus t r ial goods. Import insurance norma l ly must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector impor ts are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before va l ida t ion, and a surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of all impor ts. Capital goods, heavy trucks, tires and tubes, medicines, spare parts, raw ma ter ia ls for factories, and commod i t ies imported either for government un i ts or on beha lf of government depar tmen ts are exempt from advance deposits. Goods otherwise subject to the ad- vance deposit requirement are exempt when f inanced w i th suppliers' credit of at least two years' ma tur i ty, provided that the amount of the t ran sac t ion is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the author- ized bank usually requires a cash margin of 10 per cent to 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose impo r ta t ion the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent marg in deposit must be made. A s tamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application fo rm for each remit- tance in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to a development tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Remittances are permitted for fam i ly main- tenance (up to LSd360 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,200 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in the United States is exempt from this ceiling), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of <£ stg. 60 every other year for an adult traveling to Western Europe and the United States, and <£ stg. 40 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, also authorized by the commercial banks, are the equivalent of US$90 an adult and US$50 a child, a year. Exchange for travel must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. Sudanese nationals working abroad and certain spe- cified groups resident in Sudan having earnings abroad who have availed themselves of the special arrangement for remittances and other receipts at the rate of LSd 1 = US$1.74 may retransfer for such amounts abroad provided the exchange subsidy is forfeited. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in Sudan, except Egyptian nationals, are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The remittance of income accruing f rom blocked assets in Sudan (includ- ing income from Blocked Accounts) is prohibited, except for earnings from investments in government securities made before 1970. The exportation of Suda- nese currency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all payments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 5 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remittances and those by diplomats are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of cotton and gum arabic, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to an authorized bank. Except for hides and skins, authorized banks may approve these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit or if payment takes place in advance; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. All commodities are subject to m in imum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must SUDAN be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. At times exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supply reasons (including at the end of 1977 du r ra ). Certain, generally minor, exports may be sold on a full or partial barter basis or on consignment. Most exports are subject to a develop- ment tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open accounts denom ina ted in Sudanese pounds by remittance of for- eign exchange with a subsidy on the official rate of 65 per cent yielding a rate of LSd 1 = US$1.74. Retrans- fer abroad of such amounts is freely permitted upon deduction of the exchange subsidy. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for purchases in duty- free shops in Sudan. The same facilities are granted to certain groups in Sudan who earn foreign exchange abroad, including lawyers, engineers, owners of con- su l tant houses, chartered accountants, pensioners receiv- ing pensions in foreign currencies, employees in inter- national and regional institutions in Sudan with earnings in foreign exchange, Sudanese diplomats and missions paid in foreign exchange, and Sudanese nationals who acquire properties abroad by inheritance or in other ways. Receipts from abroad in respect of other invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are sub- ject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries but the importation of Sudanese currency is forbidden. Capital Incoming foreign capital for specified investment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon final departure from Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain con- ditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domestically produced gold. With these excep- tions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Changes during 1977 January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreement with India on December 31, 1976, settlements with that country were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. January 18. The list of products that may be im- ported under the nil-value license system was again extended. Among the new items were fabrics priced at LSdO.40 or more per yard, c.i.f. port of entry; goods required by domestic industries as recommended by the Ministry of Industries; hand tools and f a rm imple- ments; spare parts of all kinds; and office equipment. January 30. Sudanese nationals traveling on leave to Egypt became entitled to maximum allowances of US$140 once every two years or US$90 every year. Children under 16 years of age were granted US$50. February 19. Authorized dealers were permitted to issue bid bonds and performance guarantees in favor of government and semigovernment units in respect of tenders and contracts. However, it was provided that such transactions should be secured by counterguarantees issued by foreign banks. February 20. A total of 16 commodity groups was added to the list of import items which may be authorized on a barter basis, including raw materials for industry, tires, electric household appliances, nonelectric house- hold utensils and appliances, and building equipment. March 1. Authorized dealers were permitted to open time and demand deposit accounts denominated in con- vertible currencies for foreign individuals, companies, and organizations resident abroad and Sudanese nation- als working abroad. Interest rates and other terms applied to such accounts should be in line w i th rates and terms prevailing in international money markets for the respective currency. March 13. The list of imports under the nil-value license scheme was extended by the inclusion of lumber, iron in all forms, other bu i ld ing materials, tomato paste, and matches. March 16. It was announced that importers listed in the Importer's Register might apply for importation of goods under the nil-value license scheme provided that they were operating with savings of Sudanese nationals work ing abroad. March 20. Authorized dealers were permitted to open resident accounts, upon application, for foreign indi- viduals, companies, consultants, contractors, and other o rgan iza t ions working in Sudan. June 11. Exports of all varieties of durra were prohibited. July 10. Imports were permitted against nil-value license of four-door passenger cars and pick-up trucks for personal use, provided the vehicles were not more than four years old. September 19. A total of 18 commodity groups was added to the list of imports under barter. Among the i tems were office and electrical supplies, canned goods, paper of all kinds, clocks and watches, and window and other glass products. November 17. New regulations on remittances by Sudanese na t iona ls working abroad were issued. Under these regulations Sudanese na t iona ls work ing abroad were permitted to open accounts denominated in Suda- nese pounds and /or in U.S. dollars. The latter will be subject to interest rate and other f inanc ial conditions ru l ing in world money markets. For accounts denomi- nated in Sudanese pounds, the account holder will receive an exchange subsidy totaling 65 per cent on the official rate of exchange. Re transfer of the amount deposited will be permitted provided the exchange sub- sidy is forfeited. The balances may be used abroad or in the domestic duty-free shops without restrictions. In addition to Sudanese nationals working abroad, the same privileges were granted to certain Sudanese groups who earn foreign exchange abroad, provided prior approval is obtained f rom the exchange control authorities. The groups included lawyers, engineers, owners of consultant houses, chartered accountants, pensioners receiving pen- sions in foreign exchange, certain employees of inter- national and regional institutions located in Sudan, Sudanese diplomats and missions paid in foreign ex- change, and Sudanese nationals who had acquired prop- erties abroad by inheritance or in other ways. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME1 (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The currency of Suriname is the Su r iname Gu i lder. The fixed official rates for the U.S. dollar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per US$1. There are also fixed official buy ing and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U.S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies,2 are set daily by the Central Bank of Sur iname on the basis of the market quo ta t ions for the U.S. dollar and those currencies in Amsterdam and the fixed buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in Suriname, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Suriname. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non- residents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The au thor i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses ma in ly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic A f fa i rs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the Ministry of Economic A f f a i r s) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import l icense ); the latter au thor i ty is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide fore ign exchange for specified current payments w i thout requ ir ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of fore ign exchange that do not result f rom borrowing abroad; the tak ing up of foreign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell fore ign exchange w i thout the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Sur iname and foreign countries other than the Ne the r lands An t i l les are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies 3 although paymen ts to and f rom the Netherlands An t i l les may also be made in Nether- lands Antilles guilders or Su r iname guilders. 1 Sur iname became a member of the International Mone tary Fund on April 27, 1978. 2 All currencies other than the Su r iname gu i lder are considered fo r- eign currencies. 3 Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, East Carib- bean dollars, French francs, Guy ana dollars, I t a l i an l i re, Japane se yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, T r in idad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdraf ts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. From January 1, 1978 authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents draw ing pensions from the Government or under company plans. Transfers of up to Sur. f. 1,500 a month may be effected under a general permit, and additional amoun ts may be transferred under a special permit. Nonresident guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed f rom abroad or with the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.4 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EEC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and un roas ted ), sugar, powdered milk, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal fu rn i tu re. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when sup- plies are not available in Suriname. Another group of commodities is subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabricated wooden houses, certain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane fu rn i tu re. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 g rams ), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 g r am s ), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative deci- sion rather than to quota. A government agency, the Sur iname Central Import Service, acts as the sole im- porter of certain staple foods tuffs. All other imports are licensed freely f rom any source. The import license serves as an authorization for payment, exchange being made available upon presenta- 4 However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for the ir own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to fo re ign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for their imports f rom their own fore ign exchange holdings. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME tion of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. A statistical fee of 1.5 per cent is levied on all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain serv- ices (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so fo r th ); up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a month for the support of each member of the remitter's own family in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 600-900 a month for a family unit (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the destination; 5 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being per- mitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Suriname currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (includ- ing Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, pro- vided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, 5 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 750 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. 384 and planting materials are granted only with the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent on the f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liqui- dation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are con- sidered to have become part of the firm's working capi- tal or to have been lent to the firm, and may only be transferred in annual installments of 20 per cent. An Investment Law provides for additional incentives to private investment. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli- cation for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, further annual transfers are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceed- ing ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries 6 Surinamese corpo- 6 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of author- ized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under- taken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. However, the Central Bank permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dollars cor- responding to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Su r . f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms, or at S u r . f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 94%ooo.7 Authorized gold buy- ers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. A gold coin with a face value of Sur. f. 100 is legal 7 These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1977 this had not yet been done. SURINAME tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declara- tion, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 per cent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1977 December 21. With effect from January 1, 1978, the Foreign Exchange Committee authorized official foreign exchange banks to open nonresident accounts in Suri- name guilders on behalf of nonresidents drawing pen- sions from the Government or under company plans and to remit to the nonresidents concerned up to Sur. f. 1,500 a month by a general permit. A special permit would be required for amounts in excess of Su r . f. 1,500 a month. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value has been established for the currency of Swaziland, the Lilangeni (plural ema langen i ), but a central rate of E 1.00 = R 1.00 has been established. On December 31, 1977, the Monetary Authority of Swazi- land quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.500 per El and buying and selling rates are held w i th in a range of 0.25 per cent on either side of that middle rate although Swaziland avails itself of wider margins. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar aga inst emalangeni which is identical with the South A f r ican Reserve Bank's rate for the U.S. dollar against the rand, and the London market rates for the currencies con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Mone tary Area which is a single exchange control territory compr is ing Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are not controlled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally s im i lar to those of South A f r ica, although Swaziland's trea tment of certain capital transfers to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area may be more liberal. Administration of Control The Mone tary Authority of Swaziland, on behalf of the M in is try of Finance and Economic Planning, con- trols all external currency transactions; transactions with residents of Rhodesia, or involving Rhodesian cur- rency, are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs un ion with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any coun try of the customs union. Imports from South A f r ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs un ion. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods direct f rom countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regu- lations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped w i thout license to or through South Afr ica. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of cu r rent payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established l im i t s; the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equ iva lent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adu lt and R 800 for a child; there is a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repa tr ia t ion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonres iden t, without prior approval. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- t ions for t rans fe rs of capital, whether inward or outward, may depend on whether the applicant is a foreign national temporarily resident in Swaziland, a nonresident, or a resident. Holders of blocked emalangeni may pur- chase five-year nonresident bonds, the ma tu r i ty proceeds of which are transferable, five years a f ter purchase, to the currency area of which the holder is a resident. Alterna- tively, holders may place their blocked balances in approved investments. Changes during 1977 December 1. The regulations regarding exchange cover and fo rwa rd foreign exchange contracts were amended. The requirement that forward contracts must be established within seven days of entry into the under ly ing transaction was eliminated. In fu tu re, there would be no objection to the establishment of forward contracts covering a firm commitment involving the movement of goods between Swaziland and countries outside the Rand Monetary Area. In addition, it was possible to arrange forward cover in respect of certain overseas loan commitments to cover foreign borrowing by public utilities (Exchange Control Circular No. 20). 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona. Since August 29, 1977 Sweden has not maintained the exchange rate within announced marg ins. In managing the exchange rate, the Sveriges R iksbank is guided by a weighted index composed of a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. On December 30, 1977 the buying and selling rates of the authorized banks for the U.S. dollar were SKr 4.6625 and SKr 4.6775, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Also, they may purchase, spot, f rom foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any fore ign currency or Swedish kroner credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). They may sell to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies spot against any other foreign cur- rency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. The acquisition by foreign banks or banking firms of kronor on Regular Accounts is subject to limitation. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering cur- rent payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services; (2) 24 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services; ( 3) 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports; and (4) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. For- ward exchange transactions covering payments under (1) and (2) above may be allowed for periods exceed- ing 24 months if a purchase and a sale in the same cur- rency correspond as regards amount and approximate value date. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks, forward, any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may under certain conditions conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of ma r- ket forces. Sweden forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the R iksbank through its Exchange Control Board. The Board's deci- sions may be appealed to the Governing Board of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments (as defined in Sweden's exchange control legislation) are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency pre- scriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other non- resident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans- fers f rom other Regular Accounts, with authorized pay- ments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. Regular Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents a f ter emigrating. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden, proceeds f rom sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for pay- ments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise pur- chases; taxes and other official charges; expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and for the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Foreign Exchange Accounts l are held in foreign cur- rencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for mak ing authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of for- eign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when or ig ina t ing in or shipped from Rhodesia. With the exception of a few agricultural and fishery products and of specified types of footwear, practically all goods are free f rom quan t i ta- tive restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than (1) Japan and (2) A lban ia, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Most imports f rom countries in the second group are also liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports from the Republic of China of certain textiles are subject to specific licensing arrange- ments. Imports from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, and Tha i land) of certain textile products are regulated through special arrangements. In addition, imports of rubber boots f rom any country other than member countries of the EEC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and imports of specified textiles and garments from any source other than EEC or EFTA countries are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance pay- ments, may, as current payments, be made without per- mission through authorized banks and without the for- mality of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Paymen ts for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of per- sons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the R iksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. For tou r ism, recreational travel, or study abroad, resi- dents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a tr ip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications to the Riksbank for additional amounts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, w i thout restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. The export by travelers of Swedish banknotes in denom ina t ions larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap me ta l, and arms are exempt f rom license if payment is to be received in con- fo rm i ty w i th the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, and exports of specialty steels to the United States are subject to license. Pro- ceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surren- dered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account w i th a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are subject to the same treat- ment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person en ter ing Sweden may br ing in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes (in denominations of SKr 100 or less) and coins and un l im i ted amoun ts of other means of payment. 1 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in for- eign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized payments in fo re ign currencies. They may not bear interest, unless the Riksbank gives special permission. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted only 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution if the investment is considered likely to promote exports or otherwise to benefit the balance of payments. Authori- zation may be conditional on foreign financing with an average maturity of at least five years. Financing abroad is, however, not required for investments in sales com- panies and other companies which give rise to exports from Sweden, for investments involving relatively small amounts, or for investments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. Resi- dents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to pur- chase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 125,000 for each fam i ly. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank; af ter one calendar year (beyond the year of em ig ra t ion ), he will normally be permitted to t rans fer the remainder of his assets. When Swedish residents emigrate for a limited period, applications for transfers in excess of the in i t ial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, inc lud ing those in respect of gifts and support paymen ts up to SKr 2,000 for each transfer. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts f rom abroad on account of l ife, pension, and annu i ty con- tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and g if ts and inheritances. Residents may accept other k inds of capital receipts f rom abroad only upon approval f rom the R iksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit f rom nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing abroad for periods of at least five years for purposes that are considered likely to bene- fit the balance of payments is no rma l ly permitted. The Riksbank also permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through fore ign borrowing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swed- ish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contem- plated imports. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conform i ty with commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swed- ish exporter or importer credit intended to finance cer- tain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions mentioned above requ ires that the credits conform to no rmal commercial practice. Residents are not normally permitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. SWEDEN Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad at long term for purposes of on-lending to residents. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are per- mitted to borrow at long term from the parent com- panies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization f rom the Riksbank; such authoriza- tions are granted restrictively. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresi- dents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian coun- tries and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been admitted. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- zation, which norma l ly is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (m inor investments excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The t ran s fer of the liquidation proceeds of such invest- ments, inc lud ing appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. In connection with nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational pur- poses, residents may, without authorization, both receive payment f rom, and g rant credit to, nonresidents. Exist- ing loans connected w i th the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Further- more, banks are permitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to SKr 25,000. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents, requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denomi- nated in foreign currencies using the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made w i th in six mon ths of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authorization buy f rom other residents for- eign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies. A general license permits the repurchase abroad of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner, provided that an aff idav it can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time du r ing the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domi- ciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities f rom a person domiciled in Sweden. The aff idav it is not required when the securities are registered w i th the Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may hand le purchases by non- residents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swed- ish kronor when payment is to be made in the fo rm of 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN other similar securities (switches), provided that ( 1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Regis- ter Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase f rom and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish em igran ts is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank. Banks may g rant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur for- eign exchange liabilities, but may not ma in ta in a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kroner) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the pro- ceeds against Swedish kroner in the marke t, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Non- residents' holdings of kronor in Regular Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with m inor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the R iksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanu fac tu red gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or co l lec t ions). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scien- tific purposes, as well as to persons and firms impor t ing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of num i sma t ic va lue intended for collections. Changes during 1977 March 3. Sweden in fo rmed the GATT that the global import quota for certain footwear, introduced on November 5, 1975, would be discontinued in respect of leather and plastic shoes as of July 1, 1977. April 4. The R iksbank changed its intervention points vis-a-vis the currencies in the European common margins a r rangemen t. The new currency va lue of the krona, used as a nume ra i re for establishing in terven t ion points, corresponded to SKr 5 . 9 1 1 18 = SDR 1, compared w i th SKr 5.55651 = SDR 1 previously. April 4. It was announced that, with effect f rom June 1, the value-added tax would be raised by 3 per- centage points to 20 per cent. June 1. The import surveillance scheme introduced on J anu a ry 1, 1976 on licensing of certain textiles and garments was abolished in respect of such goods originat- ing w i th in the EEC or the EFTA. August 29. Sweden discontinued for the time being its association w i th the European common margins a r rangement and announced that it would no longer con f ine its ma rket rate for the krona w i th in the margins of 2.25 per cent. In manag ing the exchange rate, the R iksbank would be guided by a weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most impor tant t rad ing partners. At the same time, the krona was depre- ciated by 10 per cent vis-a-vis the basket. September 22. It was announced that interest would no longer be paid on residents' foreign currency accounts. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Council on May 9, 1971 is 0.21759 gram of fine gold. The "central rate" for the U.S. dollar fixed on December 20, 1971 was Sw F 3.84 = US$1. The gold parity of the Swiss franc has not been altered accordingly. On January 23, 1973, the Swiss National Bank suspended until fur ther notice its intervention in the exchange market and no announced margins have since been maintained in the market for any currency, although intervention occurs from time to time. The market rate for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 30, 1977 was Sw F 2.00 per US$1. All settlements may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Swit- zerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein are generally considered by Switzerland tory. For purposes of capital control, natural or juridical persons (including banks) domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are generally considered by Switzerland as residents,2 except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, however, Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricultural prod- ucts and certain fuels. Import permits for goods still under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Paymen ts for imports f rom all countries may be made freely. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Mone tary Fund. 2 For details see the Federal Ordinance on the application of the Measures for the Protection of the Currency in respect of the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital may be made freely, with the exception mainly that bank credits and other bank lend- ing to nonresidents, when exceeding S w F lO million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. This applies to foreign issues in Switzer- land of bonds and to direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, cer- tificates of deposit, etc.) in amounts of Sw F 3 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for examination. In addition, issues in Switzerland of for- eign bonds (but not the issue of notes) denominated in Swiss francs are subject to a ceiling, from which only international development institutions are exempt. All capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credit) must be converted into foreign currency at the National Bank. Issues by foreign issuers of debt instruments expressed in Swiss francs and having a maturity of less than 12 months are discouraged. Foreign governments and monetary authorities may not acquire participations in loans and credits denominated in Swiss francs. Other nonresidents may do so only if they agree to hold such participations to maturity.3 Medium-term notes must be placed at fixed maturities without the possibility of advance repayment. Inward capital transfers are restricted.4 Some of the relevant regulations make a distinction between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss nationality, the latter usua l ly being exempt from prohibitions or approval requirements even when they have their permanent resi- 3 Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for the application of some regulations, namely, those based on the Law on Banks and Sav- ings Institutions, which does not extend to banks in Liechtenstein. 4 In order to limit the international use of the Swiss franc, the Na- tional Bank on March 22, 1977 reinstated a measure which had been revoked in July 1974. It prohibited the participation by nonresident n a tu r al or juridical persons in the extension of domestic credits denomi- na ted in Swiss francs to fore ign borrowers. This restriction was partly removed on Ju ly 11, 1977, but on February 28, 1978, a ban was imposed on the sale of domestic securities to nonresidents. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND dence abroad. Natural or juridical persons having their domicile or registered office in Liechtenstein are consid- ered nonresidents for purposes of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. The definition of the terms "foreigner" and "foreign funds" is not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Borrowing from nonresidents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident natural and juridical per- sons other than banks requires the prior approval of the National Bank, which is not normally granted. The principal exemptions from this licensing requirement are for borrowing corresponding to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for credits up to Sw F 1 million, if taken up in foreign currency, used entirely abroad, and not converted into Swiss francs. In addition, approval is normally granted for borrowing from relatives abroad and Swiss residents may borrow once up to Sw F 50,000. Formally, banks are subject to reserve requirements against the growth and the level of external liabilities (liabilities both in Swiss francs and in foreign curren- cies). While banks have to report monthly their exter- nal liabilities to the National Bank for the calculation of reserve requirements, reserve deposits do not have to be lodged with the National Bank since February 28, 1977. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits (including "fiduciary" or "trustee" funds) received f rom nonresidents; however, savings accounts and similar accounts are subject to preferential treat- ment. Banks must charge a commission ("negative interest") of 10 per cent a calendar quarter on all net increases after October 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss f ranc deposits, irrespective of maturity; increases up to SwF 100,000 are exempt from this commission, and for accounts held by foreign banks domiciled abroad, the exemption limit is Sw F 250,000, if the balance on October 31, 1974 was less than Sw F 150,000. The banks have agreed to inform the Swiss National Bank of spot and forward transactions exceeding US$5 million; they must report their foreign exchange turn- over involving Swiss francs (except when the daily turn- over is less than SwF 15 million). They are required to at least balance daily their overall foreign exchange position, as well as their position in each currency separately, short positions in foreign currency being pro- hibited. Banks are required to report monthly their forward positions. Banks' forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents with a maturity of less than one month are prohibited; for maturities of one month and more they are limited to 40 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level. Approval for forward sales with a maturity of less than one month or above the ceiling applying to longer maturities is given if nonresidents acquire Swiss francs for the repayment of credits, promissory notes, and bonds up to three months ahead of maturity. The 392 National Bank is empowered to block in noninterest- bearing deposits, for an indefinite period of time, the Swiss franc counterpart of its spot purchases in the exchange market; these powers have not been invoked. Banks and finance companies must report monthly their "dealer positions" in foreign currencies (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward). Internationally active firms in Switzerland have agreed to inform the National Bank of spot and forward trans- actions exceeding US$5 million, to report monthly to the National Bank their expected transfers of earnings and capital during the following month, and may be required to report once a year their repatriation poten- tial (i.e., their foreign currency placements with maturi- ties of up to six months). Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Such permission is also required for the acquisition of real estate by for- eign natural persons who have been resident in Switzer- land for less than five consecutive years, unless they have been granted a residence permit. The approvals of the cantons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (bars and coins are exempt). Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes during 1977 Throughout 1977 the National Bank refrained from imposing ceilings on the issue of domestic bonds or other securities. However, during the year the two- monthly ceilings on the placement of Swiss franc- denominated bonds by nonresidents were fixed, as fol- lows: January-February, SwF 510 million; March- April, SwF 520 million; May-June, SwF 520 million; July-August, Sw F 520 million; September-October, Sw F 580 million; and November-December, Sw F 580 million. Within this total, separate ceilings were fixed for the large banks and for smaller consortia. As before, medium-term credits and promissory notes, as well as bonds issued by international development institutions, remained exempt from the above ceilings. January 1. The extension until the end of 1978 of the emergency decrees on price supervision and on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution monetary and credit policy took effect. The latter was intended only as a temporary measure pending the enactment of a cons t i tu t ional amendment proposed by the Federal Government; it empowered the authorities to impose reserve requirements on banks' liabilities, to limit the expansion of credit, and to subject borrowing in the domestic capital ma rket to au tho r iza t ion by the National Bank. February 28. The Na t ional Bank released the rema in- ing m in imum reserve deposits of about Sw F 220 million held by banks against their foreign liabilities while ma in- ta in ing the mon th ly repor t ing requ irement of the requi- site data for their calculation. February 28. The Na t ional Bank and the Swiss Bank- ers' Association extended for another six months un t il October 31, 1977 their April 18, 1975 gentleman's agreement on the preferen t ial red iscoun t ing of export bills f rom the watch, textile, and shoe industries. On September 12, 1977, this agreement was extended with- out amendment un t il April 30, 1978. March 22. The cession to nonres iden ts of subpartici- pations in Swiss f ranc -denom ina ted credits and loans to nonresidents was prohibited. Foreign-owned banks domi- ciled in Switzerland could still pa r t ic ipa te in credit syn- dications for nonresidents (see also July 11 entry, below). April 1. The exemption l im it f rom the quarterly 10 per cent commission ("negative interest") was raised f rom SwF 100,000 to Sw F 250,000 for accounts held for foreign banks domiciled abroad if the ba lances held in such accounts were less than Sw F 150,000 on October 31, 1974 or if such accounts had been opened since October 31, 1974. April 29. The April 1, 1976 gentleman's agreement between the Na t ional Bank and in terna t iona l ly active firms in Switzerland was extended un t il March 31, 1978. Under the agreemen t, the firms were to report to the Na t ional Bank every mon th their expected transfers of earnings and capital du r ing the next mon th. In addition, the Na t ional Bank had the right to inqu ire once a year about the firms' "repatriation potential" (i.e., foreign cur- rency placements w i th ma tu r i t ies of up to six mon th s ). May 1. The Federal Council l i f ted the l im i ta t ion of Sw F 20,000 a person for each three-month period on the impor ta t ion of foreign currency notes. June 2. Banks domiciled in Switzerland and the Swiss Bankers' Association concluded an agreement with the N a t ion al Bank on the p recau t ions to be taken by banks in the acceptance of foreign funds and on the applica- tion of the bank ing secrecy law. Henceforth, banks were to ascertain the iden t i ty of their clients and to pre- vent undesirable acts considered improper under the agreement which might be achieved through bank ing secrecy. Improper acts were (1) the opening and keep- ing of accounts and deposits of securities w i thout ascer- ta in ing the iden t i ty of the owner, (2) the acceptance of funds acquired, with the cognizance of the bank, through SWITZERLAND acts that under Swiss law might be punishable or might call for extradition, and (3) the aiding and abetting of tax evasion, exchange control infringements, and other illegalities vis-a-vis authorities at home and abroad. The prescriptions of the agreement applied without restric- tion to accounts and securities deposits designated merely by numbers or code names and the requirements of the agreement were to be fulfilled within one year. Banks were fur thermore enjoined to break off relations with a customer if suspicion should arise as to the correctness of the in fo rma t ion obtained on the beneficial owner, or if the customer, through the intermediary of the bank, should perform improper acts. A special commission was to be established to control the observance of the agreement; the commission would be empowered to levy fines of up to SwF 10 million. (All credit institutions opera t ing in Switzerland and subject to the Banking Law have signed the agreement.) The agreement came into effect on July 1, 1977 for an initial period of five years and was to be extended automatically by one year unless notice to the contrary was given at least three months in advance by the National Bank, the Bankers' Association, or the ind iv idual bank. June 3. The National Bank extended for another year un t il June 30, 1978 the March 24, 1975 gentleman's agreement with Swiss banks whereby the banks under- took to report daily to the National Bank all spot and fo rwa rd foreign exchange transactions exceeding US$5 m i l l ion. This agreement has given the National Bank the right to enter for its own account into any such purchases, if it deems such action appropriate in the light of the exchange market situation. A parallel agree- ment with nonbanks engaging in foreign exchange trans- actions was also extended until June 30, 1978. July 1. Under the free trade agreement with the EEC, duties on most industrial goods imported f rom the origi- nal EEC member countries and Ireland were further reduced. Many of these goods henceforth entered Swit- zerland free of import duty. U.K. manufac tured goods, which qualified for duty-free entry in the first half of 1977, continued to be duty free. July 11. The March 22 prohibition on the ceding to nonresidents of subparticipations in Swiss franc- denom ina ted credits and loans to nonresidents was relaxed. In the case of firm placements, such partici- pations could henceforth be sold to nonresident banks and nonbanks, except foreign governments and mone- ta ry authorities. Nonresidents acquiring subparticipa- tions on a firm basis were required to affirm in writing to the consortium manager their intention to hold them un t il maturity. September 19. The National Bank extended its November 1, 1976 gentleman's agreement with the watch manufac turers and the textile and apparel indus- try, whereby the National Bank stands ready to conclude renewable three-month fo rwa rd transactions at preferen- tial rates in U.S. dollars and deutsche mark. The exten- 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND sion was to expire on April 30, 1978 for the textile and apparel industry and on July 31, 1978 for the watch industry. September 22. The import tariff on cereals for bread was raised f rom Sw F 3 to Sw F 28 per 100 kilograms. September 26. Forward sales of Swiss francs to non- residents with a maturity of less than one month were banned for an indefinite period. Contracts with a matu- rity period of one month and above continued to be limited to 40 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level (see also November 14 entry, be low). October 7. The Swiss Parliament voted unanimously to extend the emergency decree in defense of the cur- rency. Provided the extension is approved by a national referendum in 1978, the decree (dating originally from 1971) would be valid for three more years f rom October 1977. November 2. The National Bank requested that banks discourage advance repayment of medium-term private placements by nonresidents. Swiss franc bond issues were to be repaid only in the last two years rema in ing to maturity. The borrower would be required to pay a premium of 0.5 per cent a year for early repayment. November 14. The National Bank issued new guide- lines on capital exports in replacement of its circular of September 1975 (as amended). New placements of promissory notes repayable in Swiss francs had to be made at fixed maturities, thus precluding the possibility of advance repayment. Also, previously undesirable public bond issues in amoun ts below Sw F 10 million were now permitted under broadly the same procedures that govern issues for accounts of Sw F 10 million and above. Finally, foreign banks could now participate en nom in syndicated credits in foreign currency but not in Swiss currency. December 12. The Federal Council issued a decree forbidding the participation of Swiss residents in triangu- lar transactions with Rhodesia. With effect from Janu- ary 1, 1978, Swiss residents were prohibited from enter- ing into transactions between nonresidents and Rhodesia even if the merchandise transacted did not pass through Switzerland. The same prohibition applied to capital transactions and services connected with any such trans- actions. Exempt from the prohibition were merchandise or funds for medical purposes, teaching materials, books and publications, as well as foods tuffs delivered for human i tar ian purposes. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On Ju ly 29, 1947, a par va lue for the Syr ian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par va lue. In principle, there are two exchange rates, the official rate and the parallel rate, but since Ju ly 18, 1973 these have been un if ied. Since April 24, 1976 the exchange rates for the U.S. dollar have been LS 3.90 buy ing, and LS 3.95 selling, per US$ 1; exchange rates for other currencies are quoted on the basis of these rates for the U.S. dollar and the ma rket rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional centers. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of 0.20 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign ex- change. There is also a bazaar ma rke t. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Adm in is tra t ive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Cen tral Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only w i th the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for col- lection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. At present, pro- ceeds of exports to all countries (except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has b i la teral paymen ts ag reemen t s )l must be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency ,2 or in any other convertible cur- rency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds f rom exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained in bank- notes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, Egypt, the Gulf states, Iran, Iraq, Jo rdan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arab ia, Turkey, the Yemen 1 People's Republic of China, North Korea, Sri Lanka, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes ra tes: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jo rdan d ina rs, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi A rab ian riyals, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Proceeds from exports to Egypt may be ob- tained in "acceptable" banknotes. Prescription of cur- rency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Non res iden t3 accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of fore ign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited w i thout prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the coun try of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents and residents who have activities abroad may also keep accounts in foreign currencies in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic, but only if these accounts result f rom an inflow of capital; t rans fe rs abroad f rom these accounts may be made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of fore ign currency brought in at the parallel rate and amoun ts corresponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely f ree, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities or ig ina t ing in Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica are prohibited. Many basic commodities ( in c lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agr icu l tural mach inery) are imported only by state trad ing agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports are divided into two ma in categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Pro- hibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products, and some less essential goods which are temporarily not adm i t ted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (2) all other goods. In principle, imports must be made direct f rom the coun t ry of origin, w i thout the in termed iary of any firm conducting a busi- ness established outside the Syrian Arab Republic; the M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au- thor i ty, however, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the coun try of origin. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders when valued at over LS 1,000. Except in the case of basic foods, the state t rad ing 3 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian na t iona l i ty, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been l iv ing in the Syrian Arab Republic for more th an a yea r. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC agencies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or the Prohibited L is t) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian Arab Republic w i th some of these countries. Also exempt are certain com- modities when imported by specified monopoly holders; these include coffee, tea, tobacco, sugar, salt, and rice, imported by the TAFCO agency. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import licenses, which may not exceed a value of LS 100,000 each (except for capital goods), the importer must provide evidence of his foreign exchange holdings abroad on December 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a docu- mentary letter of credit is opened at the Commercial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the f u ll amount with his foreign exchange. Licenses to impo rt specified items that norma l ly are prohibited (ce r ta in consumer goods, raw materials, and semifinished goods), up to a value of LS5,000 for a 12-month period, are granted to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are not prohibited are permitted without a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS500 or less (LS 10,000 a year for each public sector impor ter). There are limited import facili- ties for travelers arriving f rom abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, pe- troleum, and petroleum products. In addition, the fol- lowing taxes, collected by the customs, are applied on imports: ( 1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent; (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tar iff rate is more than 1 per cent; (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the ta r i f f; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f; (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities may be imported only through Syrian harbors); and (6) an ocean tax of 0.20 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made at the parallel rate by letters of credit, time drafts, or bills for collec- tion, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tempor- ary resident account. Importers may transfer the foreign 396 exchange within three months af ter the due date of the bill or d ra f t; t rans fer at any later date requires the prior approval of the Exchange Office. The importer submits the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Commercial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is curren t ly not required. Payments for Invisibles Insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All payments for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the parallel rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a tr ip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Sudan, and Tu- nisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Sudan, and Tunisia), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the parallel ra te also exist for other invisible transactions, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and inter- national missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents from Syrian securities; and LS250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Non- residents leaving the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. For additional amoun ts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of cer- ta in other commodities also are reserved for govern- ment agencies, state trading agencies, or specified com- panies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of the ma in products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Com- mercial Bank of Syria within six months af ter the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the parallel rate, with the exception that the proceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be surrendered (to the Exchange Office) at the official rate; as noted above, the two rates have been unified since 1973. Certain manufactured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12.5 per cent ad valorem. Exports of agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those f rom other invisibles at the paral- lel rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Nonresidents are per- mitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers take place at the parallel rate. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. There are special facilities for the investment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic. Residents and nonresidents of any nationality are permitted to open foreign currency accounts in the SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Syrian Arab Republic with imported funds. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 regulates the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not without prior approval be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Exports of gold are subject to export licensing, while imports are exempt f rom import licensing. Import payments require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1977 January 18. A Cooperation Agreement and an In- terim Agreement were signed between the EEC and the Syrian Arab Republic. February 2. The limit on the value of licenses to import specified items that are normally prohibited (certain consumer goods, raw materials, and semi- finished goods) during a 12-month period by merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade was reduced from LS 25,000 to LS 5,000. August 5. The tariff on all refrigerators and refriger- ating equipment was raised to 100 per cent ad valorem. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling. A central rate of T Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Tanzania avails itself of wider margins. The rates of the Bank of Tanzan ia for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's da i ly ca lcu la t ion of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1977, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Tanzania for the U.S. dollar were T Sh 7.91278 and T Sh 7.99230, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except bankno tes) against Tanzania shillings at par. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzan ia. Authority for approving normal import payments, some paymen ts in respect of current invisibles, and some capi- tal payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Com- merce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the ma in land, import control is adm in is tered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Commerce and Industries. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests w i th the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzan ia before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for commodity imports confined to specified parastatal orga- nizations must be submitted through the par t icu lar orga- n iza t ion. Zanz ibar administers an independent system of foreign t rade controls; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state t rad ing agencies (B izan je and the Zanz ibar State Trading Co rpo ra t ion ). With Kenya and Uganda, Tanzania formed part of the East A f r ican Commun i ty. However, the Commun i ty was dissolved, in effect, in early 1977. With a few excep- tions Tanzania now treats residents of Kenya and Uganda on the same basis as all other nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents norma l ly must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Certain proceeds must be received in specified currencies.1 Remittances to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. 1 The specified currencies are listed as Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Burmese kya ts, Canad ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Icelandic 398 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of fore ign countries w i th authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated non- res ident accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspecified nonresident accounts. They may be cred- ited w i th authorized payments to residents of foreign countries by residents of Tanzan ia, w i th transfers f rom Ex te rnal Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any fore ign currency (o ther than Rhodesian and South A f r ican cu r rency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents, for t rans fe rs to Exter- nal Accounts in Tanzania, and for authorized purchases of foreign currencies f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice, 1977 may be imported free ly, irrespective of coun try of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semi- annual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative fore ign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. Most goods may normally be imported only by or on behalf of specified parastatal organizations. All imports to the mainland f rom Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufac tured goods when imported f rom and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import payments normally not being granted until a f ter customs clearance. Most suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved adminis- tratively by the Bank of Tanzania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all other currencies of the fo rmer Sterling Area other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution leave Tanzania eventually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to one third of their monthly salary to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of one third of salary or in excess of TSh3 ,000 a month are consid- ered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrange- ments are not entitled to emigration facilities (see sec- tion on Capital, be low). The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Family remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. On the ma in land, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports may not be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports f rom Zanzibar are prohibited. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must ma in ta in an account w i th a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies w i th in one to two months f rom the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a re turn ing traveler may bring in up to T S hi 00 in Tanzania shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior TANZANIA to the date of application and who have not been avail- ing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of TSh 20,000 each, a f ter which any remaining amount w i ll be considered for repatriation. G if ts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign f u n ds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investments should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania and a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protection) Act, 1963 should be obtained. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is free ly granted for the purchase by non- residents f rom residents of Tanzanian securities on a recognized East African stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the pro- ceeds f rom resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzan ia by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0368331 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht corresponding to B 20.00 = US$1, and Thai- land avails itself of wider margins. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. On December 31, 1977, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transac- tions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.375 buying, and B 20.425 selling, per US$1; on the same date, the authorized banks' rates for telegraphic transfers were B 20.35 buying, and B 20.45 selling, per US$1. The authorized banks' rates for other currencies are based on their buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York and London rates for such currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thai- land on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to author- ized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized com- panies) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen ts); certain inward capital t rans fe rs may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification (no such notification has been issued). Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur- rency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; payments are made largely in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans- ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and f rom nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, inter- national organizations stationed in Thailand, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds f rom sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred f rom other Transfer- able Accounts, and with funds eligible for rem i t tance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferab le Accounts are convertible in to foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of for- eign currencies for t rans fer abroad, for transfers to other 400 Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include pro- ceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds f rom sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and f u n ds that cannot be identified as eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht f rom Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capi- tal transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requ irement that the importer purchase a propor- tionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceed- ing nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; mili- tary equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income a f ter taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, fam i ly maintenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$800, for trips of less than 10 days or US$80 a day for trips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 45 days; for business travel, additional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. For fam i ly remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists, however, may take out without prior authorization up to US$2,000 a person in foreign banknotes and coins, or such higher amount as they may have declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an indi- vidual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other com- modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of expor- tation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate is intended to assure repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be col- lected and must be sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collec- tion, or 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum ornaments up to any value but require a certi- ficate of exportation to take out any other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an author- ized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local 1 These include gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. THAILAND currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the pur- pose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded pref- erential treatment under the Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued April 29, 1977); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The public sector requires the approval of the National Economic Devel- opment Board to negotiate external loans. Commercial banks must report daily to the Exchange Equalization Fund and to the Bank of Thailand both their foreign exchange transactions and their foreign exchange positions. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of B 50 per troy ounce of gold. Exports of gold bu l l ion are prohibited, while those of gold orna- ments, when not effected by fo re ign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in va lue, require a certificate of exportation in add i t ion to the export en try, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export du ty or taxes. Foreign tourists may take out gold o rnamen ts up to any value. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Changes during 1977 January 15. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain textile yarn and on discontinuous polyester, and a temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on certain fabrics and yarns, both until December 31. February 9. A temporary import surcharge of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on glazed and unglazed flags and pavings and wall and hearth tiles up to December 31. February 23. A temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain steel wires, and a temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent was imposed on certain fishing nets, both up to January 31, 1978. February 23. The export licensing requ irement for cotton threads, artificial threads, textile and textile prod- ucts made from cotton, man-made fibers or wool, pre- viously imposed on exports to the United States, Sweden, and Norway, was extended to cover exports of these items to France and the United Kingdom. March 30. The licensing requirement was lifted for imports of car engines and spare parts. At the same time, the importation of used car bodies and cabs was prohibited. April 22. Bank of Thailand's Notification to Author- ized Agents No. 29 was issued to revise, with effect from May 3, the instruction regarding exchange allowances for travel abroad, by specifying that the travel allow- ance was limited to US$800 for a tr ip of less than 10 days; the average rate of US$80 a day was applicable to trips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 45 days. April 26. A temporary import surcharge of 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on telephone receiv- ers up to April 25, 1978. April 29. The Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 was issued codifying the preferential treatment granted to foreign investments. May 4. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on certain laboratory glassware up to May 3, 1978. May 21. Thailand agreed to limit its exports of cer- tain textile products to the EEC. May 30. The Directions to Authorized Persons were revised so that the maximum amount of foreign currency that might be sold to a person without a permit was raised from US$140 to US$250 a month. This limit would not apply, however, to a transit passenger or a person entering Thailand with a return ticket. June 1. A temporary import surcharge of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on caustic soda until May 31, 1978. Also, temporary surcharges of 20-30 per cent were imposed on certain types of bandages until May 31, 1978. June 23. The importation of certain types of porcelain insulators was prohibited. June 29. A temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on scientific labora- tory glassware un t il May 3, 1978. July 15. A temporary import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on plasticizers until July 14, 1978. July 15. A temporary import surcharge of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on electric induction motors un t il July 14, 1978 and a surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on discontinuous viscose rayon fiber un t il Ju ly 14, 1978. August 5. A short-term currency swap arrangement with Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Singapore entered into effect. August 24. An export licensing requirement was imposed on exports of jute yarn to Belgium, Luxem- bourg, and the Netherlands. August 31. The agreement on preferential trading arrangements between the members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) entered into effect. September 1. An export licensing requirement was imposed on exports of all categories of jute, except jute manufactures. September 1. A temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on menthol until August 30, 1978. October 1. A temporary import surcharge of 10-40 per cent was imposed on aluminum foil until Septem- ber 30, 1978. December 2. An export licensing requirement was imposed on exports of cement. December 8. An export licensing requirement was imposed on exports of certain kinds of wood and timber products. December 20. An import licensing requirement was imposed for pig iron. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System Prescription of Currency No par va lue or central rate for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the in terven t ion currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F0 .02; the BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Mone tary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill on t rans fe rs to such countries.2 Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on t rans fe rs to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered fore ign countries. Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrow ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all ou tward investment, and the soliciting of f u n ds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval au tho r i ty in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized in termed iar ies. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the in termed iary of banks, financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and notaries public, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the M in i s t ry of Com- merce and Indus t ry, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance and Economy. l fT he CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Benin, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between offices of the BCEAO. Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited w i th BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of South A f r ican origin are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and destined for commercial purposes. Imports f rom all other countries require ind iv idual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program to be established each year; as yet, however, the program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources are granted. There are no fo rmal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Na t iona le de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned m i lk, soap, salt, corrugated iron, and iron rods. All import transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one mon th before shipment if a docu- 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO mentary credit is opened or one month before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted by a general authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ); any foreign ex- change in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing af ter re tu rn to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, and work permit, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, if proceeding to a coun try that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on e n t r y3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain ex- ports to Rhodesia and all exports to South Africa are 3 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs; and (2) for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. 404 prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a mon- opoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, ground- nuts, and certain other commodities. The due date for payments for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account country; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with author- ized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Togolese Govern- ment and (2) shares that are iden t ical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ties and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo requ ire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy.4 Foreign direct investments in Togo 5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declara- tion to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments constitute investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrow ing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; ( 3) loans taken up either by indus tr ial firms to finance works abroad or by approved in terna t ional merchan t ing houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided th at the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign 4 Including those made th rough fore ign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. TOGO borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans con- s t i tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by author- ized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accord- ance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption f rom import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both fore ign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guar- antees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Togo. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated a r t ic les ); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, and Trinidad and Tobago avails itself of wider margins. However, a fixed rela- tionship with the U.S. dollar is maintained of TT$2.40 = US$1. On December 31, 1977, the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (inclusive of exchange charges) were TT$239.7 and TT$242.1, respectively, per US$100. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it stands ready to deal with the commercial banks in foreign currencies, as well as the rates at which the commercial banks must buy f rom and sell to the public in these currencies in transactions not exceeding TT$100,000.* For transactions in excess of TT$ 100,000 the commer- cial banks are required to quote rates to the public not less favorable than those fixed by the Central Bank for smaller transactions. Foreign exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amoun ts of TT$25,000 and above and are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward trans- fers; on December 31, 1977 the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks were 0.50 per cent on outward transfers and nil on inward transfers. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of payments for visible imports to the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, and w i th respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency 2 • 3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas pay- ments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facili- ties by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresi- dent-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago but, under an arrange- 1 The currencies for which the Central Bank quotes daily rates are Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, in addition to Barbados dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and East Caribbean dollars. 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves f requent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Cu r rency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic s ta temen ts of cred i ts and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. 406 ment with the mone ta ry authorities concerned, the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repa- triated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency 4 except Rhodesian currency. Author- ized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency except Rhodesian currency. Payments f rom all countries other than Rho- desia must be received in sterling or in any other speci- fied currency except Rhodesian currency. Special regu- lations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Exter- nal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of coun- tries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR icoM )5 to any coun try outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trini- dad and Tobago, or proceeds f rom the sale of foreign securities). The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is * Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian dollars, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be rein- vested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually w i th in four years f rom the date of acquisition. The income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Most imports f rom other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: ( 1) Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; and (2) all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. The import and customs regulations provide for pro- hibition or stringent control, state trading, individual licensing, and open general license arrangements. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Firearms, ammun i t ion, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Certain food products are covered by the Agri- cultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading, and is norma l ly imported f rom Guyana at agreed prices.6 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an indi- vidual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. (a) All imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted on a case-by-case basis for imports f rom these countries of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. (b) As regards imports f rom all other countries, except Rhodesia and South Africa, a "negative" list is published covering all goods subject to ind iv idual licens- ing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qua l i fy for preferential treatment within CARICOM .) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the Ministry of Indus- 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan- nels, but such imports are not usually allowed f rom countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO try and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry and with due regard to any obliga- tory restrictions arising from the requirements of inter- national commodity agreements or other factors. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports f rom countries other than those under (a) above, no discrimi- nation is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, with the exception that CARICOM comm i tmen ts are taken into account. Import licenses, where required, must be obtained before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for current international transactions, except where pay- ments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are concerned. Under au thor i ty delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisible transactions. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital t rans fe rs are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$1,200) in foreign currency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on depar- ture, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an ind iv idual license. These include some foods tuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petro- leum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Indus try and Com- merce. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds f rom sugar exports are subject to a tax which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate fore ign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to ma in ta in operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers f rom Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigra- tion allowances are approved up to specified limits; fur thermore, as a ma t ter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securi- ties expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization of sterling securities is per- mitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not o rd ina r i ly be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is of ten given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally pro- vided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market ou ts ide Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior 408 approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irre- deemable or are not redeemable within four years f rom the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros- pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manu fac tu r ing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the f ramewo rk of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a com- mercial scale, or any industry for which there are favor- able prospects for fu tu re development. Every pioneer manufac turer is entitled to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds ( inc lud ing capital ga ins) realized f rom part or all of a direct capital investment made af ter J anu a ry 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and Tobago in an approved project may be repatriated at any t ime. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: ( 1) the right will not norma l ly apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project; and (2) when an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant f inance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM coun tr ies) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must ma in ta in the mon th ly average of its net foreign exchange position w i th in a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO by the Minister of Finance: ( 1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an author- ized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an authorized bank; (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are per- mitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is admin- istered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential du ty) or 15 per cent (general du ty ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential du ty) or 25 per cent (general du ty ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1977 No significant changes took place. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar, and Tunisia avails itself of wider mar- gins. However, since January 23, 1974 the Central Bank of Tunisia has established daily buy ing and selling rates for foreign currencies in light of quotations abroad. The Central Bank quotes 19 foreign currencies.1 The buy ing and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. On December 30, 1977 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for U.S. dollars were D 0.4100 and D 0.4141, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce which, in col- laboration with the Central Bank, establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and fore ign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank l or in convertible Tun is ian d ina rs th rough the Foreign Accounts of residents of those countries. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Morocco, and cer ta in settle- ments between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the na t ional currencies concerned at the central banks. Paymen ts to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. All physical and ju r id ical persons are required to declare the ir holdings abroad to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened w i thout authorization in the names of nonresi- dent fore ign na t iona ls and of Tun is ian workers abroad, and w i th authorization in the names of Tun is ian non- residents. These accounts may be credited f ree ly with d inar proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of con- vertible currencies (other than bankno te s ), w i th interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit rates applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and w i th transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credit operations require prior authori- zation, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia (irre- 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish m a rkk a a, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. In add i t ion, the Central Bank quotes bankno te rates for all of these currencies except the Moroccan d i rh am, as well as for CFA f ranc s, Kuw a i ti dinars, Luxembou rg f ranc s, Mali f rancs, Qa tar riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. 410 spective of the country of residence of the paye r ), for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency f rom the Central Bank. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents w i thout authoriza- tion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent, w i th fore ign currency purchased f rom the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, with authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, and with the proceeds f rom the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or d ra f ts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of fore ign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for t ran s fer abroad, or for delivery of fore ign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of resi- dents of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their non- resident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption of Tun is ian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds f rom a Capital Account held by a person having the na t iona l i ty of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of Tunisian securities, par t ic ipa t ions in Tunisian companies, and the acquisition of real estate. Irrespective of the account holder's coun- try of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited freely for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to D 50 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 1,000 for each fam i ly a year. They may also be debited for all taxes and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. They may not be overdrawn. Balances held by na tural persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 may be t rans fe r red abroad. Moreover, between September 1976 and December 31, 1977 any balances up to D 10,000 as of May 31, 1975 could be used for the purchase of five-year government bonds, and any balances in excess of D 10,000 to pur- chase seven-year government bonds; interest and redemp- tion proceeds on m a tu r i ty are t rans fe rab le abroad through authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for natural persons of foreign nationality staying tem- porarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be credited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises benefiting from certain export incentives, under law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such proceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or Central Bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio manage- ment expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of l iv ing expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his fam i ly up to D 50 a person a week and not ex- ceeding D 1,000 a year for any one fam i ly. Balances held by natural persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferab le abroad; in addition, those existing balances on May 31, 1975 which were eligible for t rans fer to a Capital Account could, in 1976 and 1977, be used to subscribe to certain govern- ment bonds (see Capital Accounts, above). All other debits to these accounts require the au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be ma in- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian na tu ral or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the coun- tervalue in d ina rs of convertible fo re ign currency trans- ferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, and the following does not apply to these countries. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods f rom the French Franc Area require an import authorization f rom the Directorate of External Economic Relations of the Ministry of Commerce, and a payments authorization f rom the Central Bank. Imports of nonliberalized goods f rom other countries require an import license f rom the Directorate of External Economic Relations and the visa of the Central Bank; when issuing the license, the Direc- TUNISIA the torate of External Economic Relations obtains opinion of the appropriate ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country under special procedures, as follows. Certain spare parts and a few other products required for industrial activities may be imported free of license against the presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer, and imports required by manufacturers for their own use or by certain official agencies are licensed under annual import authorizations. Moreover, manu- fac tur ing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, and playing cards. In addition, certain government agencies, principally the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, cereals, tobacco, etc.). Imports by state agencies are subject to the same licens- ing arrangements applicable to private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, or an import license, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involv- ing payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a num- ber of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu- mented. These include various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, brokerage and charges and profits relating to transit operations) and payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising from authorized con- tractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given for remittances of certain dividends due to non- residents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for publicity expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Natural persons and enterprises producing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their production process; 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to D 100 a person (D50 for children under ten ); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The allocation for study abroad is D90 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A foreign national employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of his net wage or salary, subject to a maxi- mum of D 150 a month if his family lives in Tunisia. 2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may trans- fer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits laid down in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian dinar banknotes or coins is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100, where the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Nonliberal- ized exports require an export authorization when sold to the French Franc Area and an export license when sold outside that Area. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office National de 1'Huile. Phosphates are exported by the Office du Commerce. With the excep- tions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days after shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts de- nominated in convertible dinars the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Resi- dent manufacturing industries that produce exclusively 2 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. 412 for export and are covered by Law No. 72-38 may have credited to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible cur- rency export proceeds. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises (i.e., enterprises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of con- vertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and sur- render of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. How- ever, there are certain EFAC facilities (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declara- tion upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar bank- notes and coins is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to transfer the principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 79-74 on investment in manufacturing industry. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or liquidation, even if this amount exceeds the amount initially invested in foreign currency plus the earnings on that capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufactur- ing enterprises, including an exemption from the repatria- tion requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tunisia, subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign financial and banking institu- tions doing business with nonresidents. However, these institutions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident companies upon authorization from the Central Bank. Such institutions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control pur- poses; they need not repatriate any of their funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment and working capital requirements of their enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before August 20, 1970; 3 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between December 31, 1973 and December 31, 1974; and D 10,000 for those who left af ter December 31, 1974. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to non- residents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds f rom inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval f rom nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Five commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require jo int authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of National Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1977 January 1. Under the provisions of Law No. 76-115 of December 31, 1976, mod if ica t ions were introduced in customs duties and other taxes. Several duties were raised while some products inc lud ing arms and m i l i tary 3 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. TUNISIA equipment acquired by the Ministry of Defense were exempted f rom paying duties. January 1. The customs formalities tax was raised to 50 millimes per 1,000 kilogram or less gross weight with a minimum rate of 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. January 4. The right to import specified products freely and without license subject to completion of an "import certificate" was extended to industrialists and hotel operators for the importation of all categories of spare parts required for their operations, and to enter- prises whose investments were approved by the Agency for Investment Promotion (AP I ), for imports of capital equipment. February 22. Quotas for imports from all regions, including France, were published. However, milk, butter, cheese, bananas, apples, pears, coffee, pepper, and secondhand clothes remained under a special regulation. April 1. The levying of customs duties and production tax on imports of live sheep and goats and their meat, as well as on live animals of the bovine species and their meat, was suspended through 1977. April 6. A commercial accord was signed with the U.S.S.R. July 12. The Ministry of National Economy informed importers and exporters that as a result of the U.S.S.R.- Tunisia commercial agreement of April 6, 1977, certain listed products originating in the U.S.S.R. would benefit f rom m in imum customs duties during the period April 7, 1977 to April 6, 1980. Payments for goods and services effected under this agreement must be made in con- vertible currencies. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira. A central rate of LT 14 = US$1 has been established, and Turkey avails itself of wider marg ins. Since July 8, 1975, however, Turkey has not ma in ta ined prescribed margins around the central rate. On Decem- ber 31, 1977 the official rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT19.25 buying, and LT 19.635 selling, per US$1.1 The Central Bank also establishes f rom time to time official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies.2 Since these quotations are changed at relatively in f requent intervals, cross rates between the rates for these currencies and the U.S. do l lar in Turkey have d iffered by more than 2 per cent f rom time to t ime f rom the corresponding rates in the in ter- na t ional foreign exchange ma rke t. Pending the enactment of legislation to e l im ina te inter- est payments on remittances by Turkish workers resident abroad, Turkey ma in ta ins a separate nom inal rate for these. Workers' remittances are converted at a buy ing rate of LT 15.00 per US$1; when the Turkish lira equiva- lent is credited to an account with a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 33!/3 per cent of the amount converted, resulting in a prem ium of 3.9 per cent and an effective exchange rate on Decem- ber 31, 1 977 of LT 20.00 per US$ 1.3 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also prepares the import program. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for im- ports require prior approval of the appropriate m in is try, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on ins truc t ions of the M in is try of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations ( the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Commerce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Indus try) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Commerce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. !W i th e f fect f rom March 1, 1978, the official rates we re ad ju s ted to LT 25.00 buy ing, and LT 25.50 selling, per US$1. 2 Including Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 3 W i th e f fect f r om Ma rch 1, 1978, the s e p a r a te r a te for w o r k e r s' rem i t tances was e f f e c t i v e ly abo l ished. 414 Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Ac- counts Settlements w i th countries with which Turkey has bilateral paymen ts agreements 4 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds f rom exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements w i th the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development ( I ran and Pak i s tan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements w i th other coun tr ies are made in convertible currencies; proceeds f rom exports to specified countries in Western Europe 5 must be received in the currency of any country in this group. Nonresidents as well as residents are permitted to open demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denom ina ted in convertible Turkish liras bearing an exchange guaran tee by the Central Bank. In addition, Turkish citizens wo rk ing abroad may open foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank of Turkey denom ina ted in any convertible currency through the in termed ia t ion of the Dresdner Bank in the Federal Republic of Germany. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forb idden, except with the authorization of the M in is try of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are va l id for six mon ths, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs w i th in six months. In excep- t ional cases, the va l id i ty of import licenses is extended by six mon ths. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private ind iv idua ls and corpor- ate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the M in is try of Commerce before subm i t t ing applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when g ran t ing such certificates. Exporters, mine operators, shipowners, bu i ld ing contractors who have unde r taken the construc- tion of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manu fac tu re rs are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualifica- tion is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the M in is t ry of Tourism and Informa t ion. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro- 4 Albania and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Albania is inoperative. Paymen ts w i th Po r tugal are channeled th rough a special account, but Po r tug al is not considered a bilateral coun try. 5 Au s t r i a, Be lg ium, Denma rk, France, Federal Republic of Germany, I ta ly, Ne the r lands, Norway, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, and United Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution visions of import programs which are planned for one year.6 The impo rt programs c la s s i fy impo r ts in two cate- gories: ( 1) An annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (lists I and I I ). There are no limits as to either value or quan t i ty of goods b rought in und er these lists. Import licenses are issued free ly. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropr ia te gove rnment department is required. (2) A list of goods subject to global quotas published annua l ly. Impor ts of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be impor ted when specifically authorized by the M in is t ry of Com- merce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas app ly, in principle, on ly to impo r ts f r om coun t r ies other than those w i th which Turkey has bilateral pay- men ts agreements; 7 goods not included in e i ther of these two import lists may not be impor ted und er the b i la te ral quotas. Certain impo r ts f r om member coun t r ies of the EEC are included in a list of liberalized i tems consolidated to the EEC and are free of quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ion; most of the items on th is list are included in liberalized lists I and II. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be subm i t ted at any t ime to au tho r- ized bank s, wh ich t r a n s f er them to the C en t r al Bank for issuance of the impo rt licenses. For ce r ta in l ibe ra l ized goods ( l ibe ra l ized list I I ), the pr ior approval of the m in is t ry concerned is also required. There are special a r rangemen ts adm in i s te red by the M in is t ry of Commerce to fac i l i ta te p r io r i ty a l loca t ion of fore ign exchange for impo r ts of raw ma ter ia ls and supp lemen tary materials required for export produc t ion. The list of import quotas con ta ins quo tas for registered importers and for indus tr ia l is ts. Quotas for registered importers and indus tr ia l is ts are allocated twice a year. Impor ts on the quota list are subdivided into two broad categories —imports which do not, and imports which do, require a permit f rom a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for all quota impo r ts w i th in the quan t i ta t ive l im it established for each quota i tem are m a de by the M in is t ry of Commerce. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate con f i rm ing that the articles are not m anu f a c tu r ed by local indus t ry and do not exist in the local market in suff ic ient quan t i ty or that the ir qu a l i ty is unacceptable; this certificate is issued by the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and Technology. Registered impor ters have to subm it the ir app l ica t ions for goods not requ ir ing a pe rm it th rough an au tho r ized bank and the Cen tral Bank to the M in is t ry of Commerce du r ing the first two mon ths of each semester. The Ministry of Commerce issues a fore ign exchange alloca- 6 The 1978 import program was published on J a n u a ry 28, 1978. 7 When permitting impor ts of goods on the liberalized or quo ta lists f r om nonpaymen ts agreemen t, non-OECD coun t r ie s, the M in i s t ry of Commerce takes the balance of t rade and p aym en ts w i th these coun tr ies into account. TURKEY tion letter valid for four months, and an import license must be secured f rom the Central Bank w i th in the period of va l id i ty of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Applications for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Indus t ry to the Minis- try of Commerce in April and in September of each year. Applications for quota imports requ ir ing a permit f rom a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body by importers and by industrialists. An import license must then be secured f rom the Central Bank w i th in the period of validity of the exchange allocation. Under a system of pre-import price control, which has been suspended but not abolished, imports are to be effec ted at the best ru l ing world market prices. For this purpose, there is provision for the issu ing of a certificate by the Office of Price Reg is tra t ion and Control. The import license permits the necessary fore ign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documen ts, or goods (i.e., upon customs c lea rance ). In the case of impo rt payment against letters of credit or documents, all impor ters (w i th the exception of government depart- m e n t s ), when subm i t t ing an application for an import license, are requ i red to prepay in local currency the equ iva lent of the fore ign exchange for which they have app l ied. The prepaymen ts are t rans fe r red to the Central Bank by the authorized bank w i th in five days. If prepay- men ts are not made w i th in five days, penalty payments equ iva lent to a certain ratio of the total value of imports are requ i red, as fo l lows: 5 per cent, if prepayments are made w i t h in the following five days, and an add i t ional 1 per cent a day up to a max imum period of 60 days, w i th a m a x im um rate of 50 per cent. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange t ran s fer w i th in five months f rom the date of the import license for payments against documents and w i th in two mon ths f rom the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. In March 1977, the Central Bank ceased to au thor ize fore ign exchange payments for imports other than essential commodities such as petroleum, Pharmaceu t ica ls, and raw materials. As a consequence, there was a marked increase in arrears of payments for impo r ts du r ing the course of the year. Impor ts f rom bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods f rom these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the M in i s t ry of Commerce on a mon th ly basis. Gua ran tee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as fo l lows: for goods on liberalized list I, 30 per cent of the value of the merchandise and for 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY items on list II, 15 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import application is payable for goods on importers' quotas, and 2.5 per cent for industrialists' quotas.8 For imports under bilat- eral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonpayments agreement country, but a rate of 10 per cent is applied to quotas which are not included in industrialists' quotas to be fixed by the Ministry of Com- merce for agreement countries and all of the quotas indicated in the listed import quotas for which no control authority exists. Guaran tee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, how- ever, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to con- vertible currency countries only, or on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit remains blocked un t il the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is then re funded to the importer. The guarantee deposits col- lected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corresponding to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any fo rm, except that the Ministry of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangements for the allocation of foreign exchange for nonresident holders of convertible Turkish lira deposits and exporters of manu fac tu red, indus tr ia l, or mining products. Depending on maturities, nonresident holders of convertible Turkish lira deposits are entitled to draw up to 50 per cent of their deposits in order to pay for imports of goods for their own produc- tion needs, provided that the deposits have a m in imum maturity of three years. Exporters of manu fac tu res and industrial and m in ing products are entitled to foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 25 per cent of exports for their own import needs. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain condi- tions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may br ing in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery with a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of LT 6,000, in addition to personal 8 For fertilizers, ammonia, breeding animals, and certain products on liberalized list II and the global quotas, the rate is 1 per cent. For ma ter ia ls used for shipbuilding, repair and modification carried out w i th in the coun try, and for the construction of shipyards, the ra te is 0.1 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 25,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 50,000. 416 effects. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instru- ments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and conditions vary with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, for- eign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or fam i ly use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their opera- tions. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Imports of automobiles,9 tractors, or professional ma- chinery, etc., without payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relat- ing to residence abroad and to remittance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish na- tionals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds f rom such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported du ty free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resi- dent in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported af ter three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organi- zations. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are sub- ject to the following charges: ( 1) a customs surcharge (mun ic ipal tax) of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp duty of 9.0 per cent or 9.5 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of com- modity; 10- n ( 3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and 9 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 10 The s tamp du ty is 100 per cent for imports made by special per- mission but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. 11 The ra te of s tamp d u ty was raised to 22.5 per cent or 25 per cent, w i th effect from January 1, 1978. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution customs clearance expenses;12 and (4) a production tax ranging generally f rom 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administra- tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial trans- actions. The transfer of income related to foreign invest- ments approved under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural na ture) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens may not leave the country without obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to one trip a person every two years, and one trip a person a year to Cyprus. The allowance for tourism is the equiva- lent of US$600 a calendar year.13 Exchange for business travel is granted up to an annual max imum limit of US$5,000, individual limits being determined in accord- ance with the taxable income of the applicant firm; for businessmen in exporting businesses the limit is related to the export proceeds of their firms. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, partici- pation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may pur- chase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document 12 The tou r ist allowance was reduced to US$500 a ca lendar yea r, w i th effect from March 1, 1978. On the same date a tax of 50 per cent was introduced on the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals traveling abroad. TURKEY showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. International transit through Turkey by road is subject to a foreign exchange conversion requirement equivalent to US$300 per transport unit, without any claim to reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports destined to bilateral countries, exports of the commodi- ties listed in the appendix of the export program,14 re- exports irrespective of destination, and temporary exports require an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of prices obtaining in domestic and foreign markets. Exports of goods subject neither to registration nor to license may be effected freely. The prices of exports to free trade areas or to duty- free shops abroad are approved ex post at the time the goods are delivered or at the time of sale. Such exports require an export permit issued by the Ministry of Com- merce. Transit trade items are not subject to price controls. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months f rom the date of export or within ten days f rom the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export on three-year credit terms, however, against payment in convertible currency and subject to a bank guarantee. Forward sales may be made only when payment is to be received in convertible currencies; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or products are exported.15 The rates of rebate range from 5 per cent to 45 per cent of export value. Other tax re funds apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral pay- ments agreement countries. Other tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings f rom income and corporation taxes and the exemption of export goods from production tax. Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates f rom a Special Export Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 f rom foreign tourists and are required to sur- render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign 13 Cereals, ce r ta in minerals such as mo lybdenum, wo l f r am, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oil- seeds, skins, fertilizers, cattle, meat, timber, and paper. 14 Expo rt tax rebates of 10—20 per cent apply to expor ts of raw cotton, fresh fru i ts and vegetables, and tobacco. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY banknotes and travelers checks to an au thor ized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange acc ru ing to residents for services rendered by them to non res iden ts must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acqui- sition of the exchange. Remittances by Tu rk ish workers abroad are sold to the Cen tral Bank at a special ra te (see section on Exchange Rate System, abov e ). The amoun ts deposited plus the interest can be w i thd r awn at any t ime. Foreign travelers w ish ing to take out articles w i th a va lue exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish bankno tes and coins by t rave l- ers (whe ther of Turkish or foreign n a t i o n a l i t y) is l im i ted to LT 1,000. The import of fore ign currency by trave lers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign inves tmen ts in Turkey requ ire app rova l. Capital t rans fe rs abroad by residents and capital t ran s- actions between res iden ts and non res iden ts are sub ject to the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Residents are not no rma l ly permitted to acqu ire fo re ign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain inve s tmen ts made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encou ragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts or the Pe tro leum Law, fo re ign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating f u n ds in the fo rm of fore ign exchange, al- though und er cer ta in cond i t ions blocked f u n ds may be used for inves tment in the tou r ist indu s t ry. Bo r row ing in Turkish l iras by such fore ign companies and con- tractors is subject to quotas set by the M in i s t ry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Tur- key, but special facilities exist for bo r row ing f rom the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Cen tral Bank. Blocked f u n ds are those accrued or acc ru ing to non- residents but not t rans fe rab le under the ex is t ing exchange control regulations. These include the sale proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by non r e s id ent physical or ju r id i c al persons. Except for approved inves tmen ts, non res iden ts may not convert in to fo r e ign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or ea rn ings accru ing to them; a ll ea rn ings are blocked but i f, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to ind iv idual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized w i th in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insu rance, and m a in t en an ce and repa ir of property, and for living expenses of up to LT 15,000 a mon th for each beneficiary for owners of such f u n ds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 7,500 for certain relatives. Norma l ly, such blocked f u n ds may not be t rans fe r red to others except by legal succession. The inves tment of blocked funds in the tou r ist i n d u s t ry 418 is subject to the fo l low ing conditions: ( 1) there must be a con t r ibu t ion in new fore ign exchange or imported equ ipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked f u n ds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request t ran s fer for at least five years of that part of the cap i tal financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked f u n ds used in this manner are considered as fo re ign cap i tal imported under the Law for the Encour- agement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be t ran s fe r red to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Cen tral B ank, f rom which nonres iden ts may receive credits for the ir par tner companies' inves tment require- men ts in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of F inance is ob ta ined. Dividends and profits derived f rom these credits have to be blocked again and are non t ran s fe rab le. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Cen tral Bank in accordance w i th the Paris Agreement on Comme rc ial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey ( 1 9 5 9) may be used either par t ia l ly or wholly by the cred i tors for inves tment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any t ime prior to the date, established under the Ag reemen t, when the ba lances may be t r an s f e r r ed. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be t rans fe r red abroad before the t ran s fer da te established u n d er the Agreement, except for inves tment in the export indus t r ies or in other indus t r ies e a r n i ng fo re ign exchange; in such instances the equ iva lent of up to 25 per cent of the inve s tment may be t rans fe r red annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Tu rkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- men ts is accorded p re fe ren t ial t r e a tm en t. All or part of the inves ted capital or fo re ign loans may be rem i t ted abroad in the or ig inal currency of the capital. Upon app l ica t ion, the M in is t ry of Finance guarantees the t r a n s f er of d iv idends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established und er the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely t r a n s f e r a b le between fore ign na t iona ls, both in Turkey and abroad, and be tween fore ign na t iona ls and residents. The t r a n s f er gua ran tees pass on to the new owner, pro- vided that his name is notified to the M in is try of Finance; if the shares or stock cer t if ica tes are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the M in is t ry of F inance for cance l la t ion of the guaran tees. The capital and in terest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonres iden ts to enterprises in Turkey ( i n c l u d i ng those of an ag r icu l tu ral n a tu r e) may be accorded the same trans- fer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Pe- t ro leum Law is accorded add i t ional p re fe ren t ial treat- men t. Foreign investments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the mone ta ry regu la t ions ," in which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution case the investor does not enjoy any t ran s fer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition by Turkish citizens work ing abroad of Turkish shares and bonds. Nonres iden ts and residents may open demand and time accounts in convertible Turkish liras, ca r ry ing an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank, w i th commer- cial banks. In addition, authorized banks w i th deposits exceeding LT 2 billion are permitted to incur an overall fore ign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central Bank) of up to US$20 million. During the course of the year, arrears developed in respect of repayments of ma tu r ing convertible Turkish lira deposits. With the exception of borrowing by the Government f rom fore ign governments or government agencies and f rom in terna t ional ins t i tu t ions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad f rom p r iva te sources, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the M in is try of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The M in is t ry of Finance, a f ter consu l ta t ion w i th other m in i s t r ies if appropriate, is au thor ized to approve such credits and to issue a gua ran tee of the t r a n s f e r a b i l i ty of the fore ign exchange. It is up to the in te rmed ia t ing bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Tu rk ish borrowers pay that bank the p reva i l ing domestic interest rate. Regulations issued by the M in is t ry of F inance spec i fy tha t, w i th certain exceptions, the ma- t u r i ty of such credits mu st not be less than two years, and the r rfe of in terest must not exceed the Eurodollar ra te ( the London In t e rb ank Offered Ra te —L IBOR) by more than 2.25 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for num isma t ic purposes. W i th th is exception, residents other than the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies and au thor ized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad; any unwo rk ed gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for m i n t i ng by the State M in t. Impor ts of gold are f r e e, prov ided the gold is sold to the Cen t ral B a n k. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry requ i re licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance; such licenses are not no rm a l ly gran ted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and indus t r ial users. Changes during 1977 January 2. Imports of all foreign private cap i tal under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments were to be converted at the exchange rate app ly ing at the time the o f f ic ial perm iss ion was issued by the Coun- cil of Ministers. The same rate of exchange was to TURKEY apply also for the repatriation of these funds. (This regu- lation was revoked on January 2, 1978.) January 7. The quota system for cotton exports was lifted. January 28. The 1977 import program was published. Total programmed imports in 1977 were to be US$4,890 million, compared with US$4,550 million in 1976. This included US$3,200 million for liberalized goods, US$1,600 million for quota goods, and US$90 million for imports from bilateral payments agreement countries. In addition, US$910 million was set aside for self- financing imports outside the import program. A few m inor changes were introduced in the import licensing and payments procedures. March 1. Banks were authorized to open convertible Turkish lira accounts in the name of real persons and legal entities domiciled in Turkey. The permissible ma rg in on interest rates on convertible lira deposits was raised to a max imum of 2.25 per cent above the Euro- ma rket interest rate for the foreign currency concerned, depending on the ma tur i ty of the deposit. March 1. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 17.50 buying, and LT 17.850 selling, per US$1. The nominal rate used for the conversion of workers' remittances was changed f rom LT 13.1253 to LT 13.5004 per US$1. The rate of special interest paid on the amount converted remained unchanged at 33 ^ per cent, resulting in an effective exchange rate of LT 18.00 per US$1, equivalent to a prem ium of 2.9 per cent. March 16. The requirement that credits made avail- able f rom abroad must not amount to more than 60 per cent of the total cost of a project was abrogated. July 14. The amoun ts that might be released f rom blocked accounts to meet certain expenditures w i th in Turkey were raised. Owners of the f u n ds might withdraw LT 15,000 a month (previously LT 9,000) and certain relatives might withdraw LT 7,500 a month (previously LT 5,000). September 10. Tourist travel was restricted to one t r ip a year, except for travel to Cyprus; the tourist travel allowance equivalent to US$600 a calendar year re- ma ined unchanged. The m i n im um exchange allocation of US$200 (US$100 for persons under 18) was abolished. September 21. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 19.25 buy ing, and LT 19.635 selling, per US$1. The nom inal rate used for the conversion of workers' remittances was changed f rom LT 13.5004 to LT 15.00 per US$1. The rate of special interest paid on the amount converted remained unchanged at 33Va per cent, resulting in an effective exchange rate of LT 20.00 per US$1, equivalent to a prem ium of 3.9 per cent. September 22. Gua ran tee deposits for imports on l ibera l ized list I were raised f rom 20 per cent to 30 per cent of the va lue of the merchandise, and for items 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY on list II they were raised f rom 10 per cent to 15 per cent. September 23. Export tax rebates of 15 per cent were introduced on exports of ginned and baled cotton. October 1. Real persons and legal entities domiciled abroad were entitled to draw up to 50 per cent of their convertible Turkish lira deposits to pay for imports of goods for their own production needs, providing the deposits had a m in imum ma tur i ty of three years. October 6. The importation of luxury cars under the scheme of imports with waivers was prohibited. October 8. Export tax rebates of 10-15 per cent were introduced on exports of tobacco. November 19. Exporters of manu fac tu res, indus tr ia l, and m in ing products were entitled to foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 25 per cent of exports for their own import needs. November 30. The regulations with respect to exports of commodities on credit terms were relaxed. Exports on three-year credit terms were permitted. December 10. The period w i th in which fore ign ex- change transfers for import payments against goods can be made was increased from two months to three months for petroleum. December 24. In terna t ional trans it through Turkey by road was made subject to a fore ign exchange con- version requirement equivalent to US$300 per transport un i t, without any claim to reconversion. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling. A central rate of U Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Uganda avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies l other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; its rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDK rate, and its rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling on the previous day's New York rates against the U.S. dollar. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies 2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York, except for Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward with cus- tomers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract and that the term of the forward con- tract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda formed part of the East Afr ican Community. However, the Community was dissolved, in effect, early in 1977. With a few exceptions, Uganda now treats residents of Kenya and Tanzania on the same basis as all other nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Prescription of Currency All payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected through U.S. dollar accounts held with banks abroad. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any ether currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Pay- ments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain settlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all former Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of for- eign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any for- eign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for pay- ments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to indi- vidual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. All Blocked Accounts must be held with the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through foreign exchange allo- cations and import licensing. A Cabinet Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance, meets fortnightly and makes block allocations of foreign exchange on a ministry-by-ministry basis. The Bank of Uganda informs the Committee of the availability of foreign exchange, while the Industrial Assessment Com- mittee makes recommendations on import requirements for the industrial sector. On the basis of these recom- mendations a minimum guaranteed amount of foreign exchange is made available for the importation of indus- trial raw materials and spare parts. Import licenses, which are required for all imports, are issued to indi- vidual importers by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade (UABT ), operating under the supervision of the Ministry of Commerce. For imports of industrial and commercial goods UABT also distributes among indi- vidual importers foreign exchange allocated to the M in is try of Industry and the Ministry of Commerce by the Cabinet Committee. With regard to imports of the goods that fall under the jurisdiction of the other ministries, each ministry directly concerned distri- butes the foreign exchange allocated to it; in this case, UABT issues licenses automatically. Upon approval of the application, the importer must deposit with the UABT a commission of 1 per cent of the amount of the license. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of origin. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tan- zania are subject to transfer taxes. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Import payments normally are made under letters of credit opened in the name of the UABT for the account of the importer; the latter generally must make fu ll pay- ment to the authorized bank before the letter of credit is opened. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be for- warded to the exchange control authorities within six months f rom the date of payment. Since early 1977 a certain amount of foreign exchange has been set aside each month to liquidate payments arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 3,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in travelers checks. The allowance is avail- able for travel to any country except Kenya and Tan- zania, for which holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person a year normally are available, and Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried noncitizens recruited from outside East Afr ica may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. Foreign exchange is not released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational mis- sionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to 33!/3 per cent of their gross mon th ly earn- ings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by travel- ers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta- tion and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. 422 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank- notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings. A fur ther transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniver- sary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remain- ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or be held on deposit with the Uganda Commercial Bank; such funds become transferable after five years. The income f rom such investments is transferable dur ing the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; to secure guaranteed repatriation, however, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964, as amended by the Foreign Investments Decree, 1977; in normal circumstances ap- proved s ta tus is given freely. Foreign and domestic invest- ment in specified types of production require approval under the East Afr ican Industrial Licensing Act and the Uganda Licensing Act, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents f rom normal trading operations and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are, in principle, transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by non- residents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange control ap- proval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in Uganda which is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face va lue of U S h SOO is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized indus tr ial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any fo rm other than jewelry. Im- ports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following f rom all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to gold- smiths. Changes during 1977 October 13. The Foreign Investments Decree, 1977 established a Foreign Investments Advisory Committee. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES l (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System On February 23, 1974, the United Arab Emirates established an initial par value with the Fund of 0.186621 gram of fine gold per U.A.E. Dirham, corresponding at the time to Dh 1 = SDR 0.21 or US$1 = Dh 3.94737. The U.S. dollar parity has since been maintained unchanged. The United Arab Emirates avails itself of wider margins. The United Arab Emirates Currency Board establishes daily quotations for the U.S. dollar only, within the limits of the wider margins. The Cur- rency Board deals with commercial banks, other financial institutions, governments, Rulers of Emirates, and quasi- government institutions. Commercial banks are free to transact at rates of their own choosing although in prac- tice their quotations are kept close to those of the Cur- rency Board. The amount of foreign exchange that the Board is prepared to sell to any one bank on any one day is US$250,000; transactions involving amounts above this limit can, however, be made at negotiated rates. Commercial banks' rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are fixed in relation to the U.S. dollar- dirham rate and the previous day's closing rates in New York, while taking into account market conditions in the Gu lf area and the Far East. On December 31, 1977 the Board's buying and selling rates were Dh3 .896 and Dh3.90, respectively, per US$1.2'3 The Board stands ready to make one-month, three-month, and six-month forward quotations, and the commercial banks are free to engage in forward exchange transactions. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Em ira te concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 1The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras a l -Kha imah, and Fujairah. 2 There are fixed rates of Dh 1 = QR 1 for Qatar riyals and Dh 10 = BD 1 for Bahrain dinars brought in by travelers from Qatar and Bahrain, applicable up to limits of QR 5,000 and BD 500, respectively, a person. 3 On January 28, 1978 these were changed to Dh 3.876 buying, and Dh 3.88 selling, per US$1. 424 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for moral, health, or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodity or commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel and South Africa. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported freely, without an export license, to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts from current invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Transactions and settlements involving Israel, South A f r ica, and companies blacklisted by the Arab League, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold With the exception noted below, residents and non- residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes may only be under- taken by licensed parties. Transactions involving Israel, South Africa, or blacklisted companies are prohibited. Gold bullion is exempt from import du ty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1977 January 29. The Currency Board reintroduced swap fac i l i t ies for banks w i sh ing to engage in fo rwa rd t rad ing in U.S. dollars and indicated that it stood ready to make ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES one-month, three-month, and six-month forward quota- tions. As a measure of monetary policy, these swap facilities were subject to change from time to time, and were suspended and reintroduced in accordance with market conditions. February 2. The Currency Board's quotations for the U.S. dollar were fixed at Dh 3.896 buying, and Dh3.90 selling, per U.S.$1. June 9. Banks were required to obtain f rom the ir customers a cash margin deposit of 25 per cent of the value of any new letter of credit, and 10 per cent of any new performance bond or letter of guarantee, opened by the bank on a customer's behalf. (This requirement was cancelled on June 14.) July 1. The reserve requirement imposed on banks to deposit w i th the Currency Board the equivalent of 1 per cent of foreign currency deposits received was increased to 5 per cent. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on January 1, 1978) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling. Since June 23, 1972, the authorities have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the pound within announced margins, and therefore all transac- tions in the official exchange market, except those in currencies ma in ta in ing a fixed relationship w i th sterling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing selling and buying rates in the fore ign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1977 were US$1.9140 and US$1.9170, respectively, per £1. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, except Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot fore ign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the inf lu- ence of market forces; transactions with resident custom- ers may be entered into only for approved purposes, where there is an underlying commercial contract (or where an exporter is tender ing for an overseas export con trac t), and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market (referred to as the investment currency ma rke t) in which certain fore ign currency proceeds,1 resulting mainly f rom the sale outside the Scheduled Territories ( the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Republic of Ire land ,2 and G ib ra l ta r) of fore ign currency securities held for port- folio investment purposes,8 and of most personal resi- dential property situated outside the Scheduled Terri- tories may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official marke t; at the end of 1977, that premium was 32.25 per cent calculated at the ru l ing U.S. dollar rate in the official exchange market, the middle closing rate on Decem- ber 30 being £1 = US$1.9245.4 These funds are normally available for reinvestment in marke tab le fo re ign currency securities, for approved purchases of personal residential property in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, and, although little used for this purpose, for approved direct investments in non- Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in fore ign notes and 1 Under the U.K. exchange control regulations, fore ign currency comprises all currencies other than the currencies of the Un i ted King- dom, the Republic of I re land, and G ib ra l ta r. 2 The U.K. regu la t ions re fer to Ireland as the Repub l ic of I r e l and, and for the purpose of this su rvey the U.K. usage is be ing fo l lowed. 3 The te rm "foreign cu r rency securities" is generally to be read as mean ing securities payable or optionally payable in a c u r r e n cy of a coun t ry other than the United K ingdom, the Repub l ic of I re land, and G ibra l tar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to fo r e ign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. S te r l ing secu r i t ies are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Ir ish pound s, or Gibraltar currency. The term "securities" inc ludes ce r t i f ica tes of deposit and t rea su ry bills. 4 On J anu a ry 3, 1978 at the opening of business the p r em ium was 30.625 per cent calculated at the ruling U.S. dollar rate. 426 coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory In general, the United Kingdom does not impose restrictions on exchange transactions or payments and receipts between residents of the United Kingdom and residents of the Scheduled Territories. Exchange control applies ma in ly to transactions with residents of countries ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories. For administrative purposes, the non-Scheduled Territories are divided as follows: ( 1) the other member countries of the EEC, except the Republic of Ireland; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA ), i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ire land and G ibra l tar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Territories; 5 ( 3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries, usually referred to as the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST ). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is adminis- tered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments re- qu i r ing exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Department of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency Receipts f rom Scheduled Territories may be obtained in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; those f rom other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, must be in sterling f rom an External Account or in any fore ign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), wh ich must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Terri- tories may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; payments to other countries, w i th the exception of Rhodesia, may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. 5 The OSA thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bah ra in, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Be rmuda, Botswana, British Ind i an Ocean Territory, B r i t i sh V irg in Islands, Brune i, Cayman Islands, Cyp rus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gamb ia, G h a n a, G i lbe rt Islands, G r en ad a, G u y a n a, Hong Kong, Ice land, Ind ia and S ikk im, Jama ica, J o r d a n, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leeward Is lands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Ma l ta, Mau r i t ius and Dependencies, N a u r u, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Gu in e a, P i tca i rn, Qa ta r, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, South West A f r ica (N am i b i a ), Sri Lanka, Swaz i land, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tu rks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Em ira tes, Western Samoa, Wind- wa rd Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regu- lations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circum- stances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Stand- ard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due f rom persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; authorized payments for exports f rom the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporar i ly in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United K ingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for living expenses w i th in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of resi- dents of the Un i ted Kingdom. Thus, for transfers be- tween Scheduled Territories no U.K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control au thor i ty in the ter- ritory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, Temporary Resident Accounts, and the Rho- desian Special Account (see be low ), the sterling ac- counts of nonresidents w i th authorized banks in the United K ingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries out- side the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th author- ized payments by residents of Scheduled Territories, w i th transfers f rom other External Accounts, w i th the pro- ceeds f rom sales of gold or fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency ( inc lud ing bankno te s ), and w i th sterling bankno tes mailed f rom outside the Scheduled Territories. External Accounts may be debited, subject to general or special permission, for payments to resi- dents of the Scheduled Territories; for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported f rom Rhodesia, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (Un i ted Na t ions Sanctions) (No. 2) Order, 1968; for payments in cash in the Un i ted Kingdom; and for purchases of any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency ( inc lud ing bankno tes) or gold. UNITED KINGDOM Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers f rom External Accounts, under the circum- stances described above; payments by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the discount or maturity proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports f rom Rhodesia which have entered customs in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting f rom permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, ( 6) pensions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased husband's employment, (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi, ( 8) ma tur i ty proceeds of certain endowment insurance policies, and (9) expenditure in gathering news material. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their fam i- lies; authorized purchases of U.K. sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Scheduled Terri- tories for ( 1) interest on and repayment of outstanding personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions f rom Rhodesian estates and trus ts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U.K. residents for (a) expenses ar is ing out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational expenses, (d) insurance premiums and capital and annu i ty payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) g i f ts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one payment, to individuals and religious, medical, edu- cational, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds provided the person was a member of the fund before November 11, 1965 or before tak ing up residence in Rhodesia a f t er that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Payments in respect of educational and medical expenses in Rhodesia also are permitted. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and f rom Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not normally allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Ac- count, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs other- wise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, (2) used within specified limits for living expenses in the United Kingdom of residents of Rhodesia and certain other personal pay- ments, or ( 3) placed on deposit with banks or other financial ins t i tu t ions in the name of the U.K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is given for resi- dents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase U.K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. Treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Per- mission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian or fore ign currency securities, however, when the f u n ds for the purchase are derived f rom the immediate sale proceeds of other Rhodesian or foreign currency securi- ties, respectively. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office s taff in London and ma in ta ined with the Standard Bank, London. Pen- sions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia f rom residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and pensions due f rom Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and most parts of the OSA are norma l ly settled through this account. Corresponding transfers f rom Rhodesian Ac- counts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not norma l ly given for paymen ts of any other na ture to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of Eng land, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet educational payments in the United K ingdom, the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes countries outside the United K ingdom other than Rhodesia G are divided into 12 groups: the ACP Area ,7 the CEFTA Area,8 the Commun i ty Area,0 the Dollar Area,10 the Far Eastern 6 All goods f rom Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not norma l ly gran ted. 7 The ACP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, Comoros, People's Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Gu inea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, G renada, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Guy an a, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Ma law i, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Mau r i t ius, N iger, Nigeria, Papua New Gu in e a, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Su r iname, Swaziland, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Za i re, and Zambia. 8 The CEFTA Area comprises Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Denma rk, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Ge rmany and Berlin (We s t ), Iceland, Republic of Ire land, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembou rg, Ne the r lands, Norway, Po r tuga l, Sweden, and Sw i tzer land. 0 The Commun i ty Area comprises all EEC member states. 10 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, El Sa lvador, Gu a t em a l a, Ha i t i, Hondu ras, L iber ia, Mexico, N i c a r agu a, P an am a, Ph i l ipp ines, Un i ted States, and Venezuela. 428 and Western Area,11 Japan, the Mediterranean Area,12 the OCT Area,13 Romania, the State Trading Area,14 the Residual Textile Area,15 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods,16 most imports f rom countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General Import License without restric- tion, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1977: ( 1) from all countries, four commodities or groups of commodities;17 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the non- CEFTA countries only, one commodity; (4) from Roman ia only, two groups of commodities; and (5) f rom the State Trading Area only, ten commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the Open General Import License; a number of items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quan- tities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., w i thout limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EEC regulations. Once import licensing requirements have been met, U.K. residents may purchase foreign currency, other than Rhodesian currency, or credit sterling to an Exter- nal Account to pay for the import, provided that evi- 11 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 12 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. 13 The OCT Area comprises Belize, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Gilbert Islands, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten, and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, New Hebrides, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States (Antigua, Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla). 14 The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Re- public and Berlin (Eas t ), Hungary, Nor th Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, and also Romania. 15 The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Republic of China, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, Ind ia, Indo- nesia, Iran, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, U r u g u a y, Yugoslavia, and those com- prising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 10 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, or the United States. 17 Cocoa and cocoa preparations f rom all sources requ ire a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Cocoa Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals, most p r ima ry whale products and a number of other wildlife produc ts, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoise shell, and p lumage, also cannot be impor ted w i thout an import license issued by the appropriate department. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dence of customs entry is submitted or evidence is pro- vided that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immed ia te ly on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are ap- proved by the Bank of England where the payment is considered necessary or conforms to cus tomary practice. Current administrative practice is not to allow advance payments for consumer goods. Exchange control fo rms are not required for payments to residents of the Sched- uled Territories; neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment repre- sents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £ 5,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Paymen ts to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require ex- change control authorization, which (except for pay- ments to residents of Rhodesia) 18 is granted freely for most purposes, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding <£ 1,000 or its equiva- lent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve appli- cations for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles w i thout any l im i ta t ion, and for other categories up to established l im i ts. Applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of au thor i ty has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unau thor ized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay- ment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories (except to Rhodes ia ), U.K. residents can obtain on demand f rom banks and authorized travel agents fore ign exchange up to the equivalent of <£500 a person a t r ip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allow- ance of £100 a day up to a max imum of £3,000 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for add i t ional amoun ts for bona fide travel purposes are approved by the Bank of Eng land. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Travel exchange purchased in the Un i ted K ingdom must normally be recorded in the traveler's passport. 18 Virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result f rom permitted t rade in goods. Cons ide ra t ion is, however, given to remittances on a l im i ted basis to re l ieve ha rd sh ip and to remittances of a continuing n a t u re by cha r i tab le, r e l ig iou s, medical, and educational organ iza t ions for both c u r r e nt pu rposes or to meet capital expend i tu re in the educa t ional and medical fields. Small personal g if ts are also permitted. UNITED KINGDOM Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per- sonal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to <£50 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resident travelers may take out up to £500 in foreign currency notes. Any unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency may be retained for a period of one month f rom the date of re turn to the United Kingdom. Banks have authority to approve applications by U.K. residents who wish to open foreign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel funds for use dur ing their stay abroad. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months f rom the date of issue or for one mon th from the date of return to the United Kingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £100 in U.K. and other Scheduled Territory banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man may take out any amount. Visitors to the United Kingdom are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £100 expressed in the currencies of the United King- dom or the Republic of Ireland. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appropri- ate documen ta ry evidence of the amoun ts due, applica- tions to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all incidental expenses arising from the education of U.K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of foreign cur- rency at a rate of up to £ 10 a day with a max imum of £300. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are normally issued only for the permitted exceptions (medical and educational supplies, foods tuffs where these are special medical preparations, newsfilm and photographs, and documen tary and printed matter not more than 70 years old) and for equipment for the essential replacement needs of the Rhodesian Railways and the Cen tral A f r ican Power Corporation. V ir tua l ly all exports to other destinations are free of export con- trol and no exchange control fo rms are normally required. Exporters to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must normally obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment; special exchange control permission to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months without cover f rom the Export Credits Gua ran tee Department (ECGD ). Receipts in fo re ign currencies must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for pr ior to sh ipment in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency f rom certain capital account sources (ma in ly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities held for portfolio invest- ment purposes and the sale of personal residential prop- erty situated outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been g iven) 19' 20 for the purchase of marketable foreign currency securities, the purchase of personal residential property outside the Scheduled Territories, or the mak ing of approved d irect inves tmen ts outside the Scheduled Territories; they may also sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purposes. If permission is not for thcom ing, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ru l ing in the official ma rket to an authorized bank in the United K ingdom. In certain circumstances, residents of the Un i ted K ingdom who possess the na t iona l i ty or citizenship of a coun try ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories or, in some cases, who are fo rmer residents of OSA countries but do not possess such na t iona l i ty or citizen- ship may be granted exemption f rom certain of their obligations under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denom ina ted in a fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency. There are no restrictions on capital t rans fe rs by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the benef ic ial owner- ship of residents of other Scheduled Territories. All capital t rans fe rs by residents to coun t r ies outside the Scheduled Territories requ i re approva l. Each ind i- vidual resident of the Un i ted K ingdom may, f rom his own resources, make cash gifts or personal loans not exceeding a total of <£ 1,500, or the equivalent in 19 Where currency is received f rom the sale of re s iden t ial real es ta te by residents of other Scheduled Territories, permission may also be given for such funds to be regarded as inv e s tm ent c u r r e n c y. 20 The fu ll amount of the fo re ign c u r r e n cy proceeds is no rm a l ly perm i t ted to be sold as inves tment cu r rency when the whole of a resi- dential property is sold which has been held for p r iva te use; when it has been held as an investment, however, the proceeds are not no rma l ly eligible to be treated as investment currency. 430 fore ign currency, du r ing each calendar year to residents of any non-Scheduled Territory except Rhodesia. In add i t ion, there is a fu r th er allowance of .£1,500 a donor a ca lendar year to recipients in EEC countries. Further amoun ts may be allowed under appropriate circum- stances, for example, by way of a dowry. Allowances for cash g i f ts are noncumu la t ive and not t rans fe rab le f rom one resident to another. A resident of the United K ingdom w i th dependen ts who are established residents of coun t r ies ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may make paymen ts f rom his own resources not exceed ing £2,000 a ca lendar year to support those dependen ts. Such paymen ts, which may be g i f ts or loans, are ou ts ide the cash g ift scheme and do not preju- dice the no rmal cash gift allowances. No capital t rans fe rs are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the fo rm of direct inves tment or of the purchase of Rhodes ian securities, or by any other means, except to relatives, or other Rhodes ian residents where human i- t a r i an reasons are g iven, to the ex tent of £75 du r ing any per iod of two years. For direct inves tmen ts in non-Scheduled Territories other t h an Rhodes ia, off ic ial exchange is norma l ly made av a i l ab le only for ce r ta in projects directly concerned w i th p romo t ing exports of goods and services where the prospec t ive bene f it to the U.K. ba lance of paymen ts is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the invest- ment w i t h in 18 mon ths ( three years for direct inves tment in o ther EEC coun t r ies) and to con t inue the rea f te r; this bene f it w i ll no rm a l ly occur by way of add i t ional export rece ip ts, but may also arise f rom prof i ts and other foreign cu r rency receipts that would not take place w i thout the inves tmen t. For such projects ("super-criterion" proj- e c t s ), o f f ic ial exchange may be made available up to £250,000 (£500,000 for direct investment in other EEC coun t r i e s) or 50 per cent of the total inves tmen t, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by fo re ign cu r rency borrowing, the use of investment cur- rency, the export free of payment of cap i tal equ ipment and stock-in-trade of U.K. m a n u f a c t u re f o rm i ng an in t eg r al part of the inves tmen t, by the issue or t ran s fer of shares to non res iden ts on app rop r ia te terms, by the c ap i t a l i z a t ion of an overseas subs id iary's current account indeb tedne ss to the U.K. parent company on appropr ia te te rms, by approved profit re ten t ion, or w i th foreign currency proceeds of d is inves tment in the context of a g roup reorgan iza t ion. Direct inves tment other than for "super-criterion" pro jec ts is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not f a ll directly upon the U.K. official foreign exchange reserves un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the Un i ted Kingdom by way of benefits a r i s ing f rom the inves tmen ts; such inves tmen ts can no rma l ly be financed by foreign currency borrow ing, the use of inve s tment currency, the export free of payment of c ap i t al e q u i pm e nt and stock-in-trade of U .K. manu- f a c t u re f o rm i ng an in teg ral part of the inve s tmen t, by the issue or t r an s f er of shares to nonresidents on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company on appropriate terms, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. The permitted proportion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one third of net earnings af ter taxes, applied, if desired, on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is involved. Applicants for permission to make an outward direct investment are required to provide details of estimated benefits over the 18 months (three years in respect of "super-criterion" investments in other EEC countries) following the proposed invest- ment and estimates of the benefits expected thereafter in all cases. In addition, investors seeking permission to repay foreign currency borrowings taken to finance out- ward direct investments have to give an explanation if the benefits received fall short of those originally esti- mated; the Bank of England also expects the investor to show, where possible, that these benefits derive f rom the particular injection of capital financed by the foreign currency borrowing being repaid. Benefits adduced for the purpose of repaying foreign currency borrowings have to be net of interest paid or payable on the borrowings. The purchase outside the Scheduled Territories of marketable fore ign currency securities for portfolio investment must be financed either with investment currency or w i th foreign currency borrowing. Such borrowing is freely permitted when under taken by or through U.K. professional security managers. Foreign currency loans taken up to purchase quoted securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community may be repaid with official exchange over a five-year period. Purchases of marke t- able foreign currency securities with investment cur- rency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositaries. Purchases from other residents may also be effected with sterling on the Stock Exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency p rem ium ). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or an apartment for personal use in countries outside the Scheduled Territories requires specific approval and must be made either from another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory cur- rency, or from a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories with investment currency; payment for a t tendant ex- penses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. (As an exception to this rule, residents temporarily employed in member countries of the EEC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommodation at current official market rates of exchange.) Approval is normally limited to one property a family; purchases of investment currency are UNITED KINGDOM normally limited to reasonable amounts and may be made before exchange control approval is received provided that the funds are held by an authorized depositary and that a formal application is lodged to purchase the property within six months. The approval authority for amounts up to £,30,000 for a residential property has been delegated to authorized banks. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct invest- ments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories other than residents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official market rate of exchange. Payments to non- resident beneficiaries, other than Rhodesian residents, are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due f rom the estates of deceased residents; capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies are also authorized freely. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non- Scheduled Territory nationals or citizens, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom re turn to take up residence in any country outside the Scheduled Territories) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official market rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia are allowed on departure to t rans fer for a f am i ly un it up to <£ 40,000 (£80,000 for emigration to another EEC coun try) through the official fore ign ex- change market and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of £40,000 or £80,000, as appropriate, are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a nonresident. U.K. residents tak ing up residence and employment in mem- ber countries of the EEC, however, may, with specific approval, t rans fer sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange in excess of the £80,000 limit where this is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the employment in question. Du r ing the four-year period the restricted funds may be disposed of for foreign currencies other than Rhode- sian currency through the investment currency market, may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on the Stock Exchange —the income therefrom be ing freely remittable through the official exchange market —or may be used, with general or specific permission, to meet certain expenses in the United Kingdom. Af ter the four-year period any rema in ing assets are transferab le in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonres iden t; at present, the transfer at the official market rate of exchange is normally allowed. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM The participation of foreign capital as a direct invest- ment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an ap- proved manner of payment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be sur- rendered at rates ruling in the official market unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases involving the takeover of existing companies that by their size or na ture constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are normally, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling f rom an External Account or in foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and, in certain circumstances, on any subsequent finance being provided in foreign cur- rency or External Account sterling at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. The acquisition in any manner by any person not resident in the United Kingdom of 10 per cent or more of the outstanding shares of a company registered in the United Kingdom requires prior exchange control approval. Nonresident firms and individuals must obtain ex- change control permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and all U.K. resident companies are required to obtain consent before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. U.K. residents also need permission to lend to U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents whether in the fo rm of direct lending or by way of bills of exchange, checks, promissory notes or certain other instruments. Such permission is normally given without restriction for sterling lending for the company's business in the United Kingdom. U.K. banks are prohibited f rom providing sterling loans or overdrafts to persons resident outside the Sched- uled Territories for the purpose of financing trade be- tween non-Scheduled Territories. Similarly, U.K. mer- chants, except certain commodity traders, may not finance such trade in sterling. They are, however, allowed to do so w i th foreign currency borrowed for the purpose. Borrowing by U.K. residents f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to finance expenditure in the United Kingdom is subject to restrictions. Private sector U.K. residents other than authorized banks normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories for con- version into sterling for use in the United Kingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Sched- uled Territories, unless the term of borrowing is at least two years; exporters, merchants, and certain commodity traders are, however, permitted to borrow fore ign cur- rency for shorter periods f rom authorized banks or f rom 432 nonresidents to finance their sales or, in some cases, stockholdings. Public sector bodies normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency unless the term of the foreign borrowing is at least five years; for per- mitted foreign currency borrowing they may avail themselves of exchange cover provided by the Treasury. Authorized banks must not lend foreign currency to U.K. residents (other than authorized banks) for any other purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. U.K. companies normally are not permitted to borrow External Account sterling f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories unless the term of the borrowing is at least two years. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositaries, transactions in quoted securities of most types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions which involve loss of U.K. voting control of a company because the purchaser is itself nonresident-controlled require Bank of England consent, and transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on the Stock Exchange. Residents are normally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories, and, in respect of those held for portfolio investment purposes, to reinvest the proceeds (investment currency) in marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for certain approved direct investment or approved purchases of property for private use outside the Scheduled Territories. The proceeds of sale of foreign currency securities held as direct investments must be sold at the official market rate of exchange or, where appropriate, may, with Bank of England permission, be retained in foreign currency for use for fu r ther outward direct investments in the context of a group reorganization. Investment currency may norma l ly be retained as investment currency for a max imum of 12 months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.21 Professional security managers acting on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day bor- rowing of foreign currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not prevented by the U.K. regulations f rom buying and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they 21 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final ma tur i ty) or in six-month treasury bills or other fo rms of recognized short-term money-market paper (including certificates of deposit). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on the Stock Exchange, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other foreign currency securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all t rans fe rs of securities in the Un i ted Kingdom in which a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either t rans fe ror or transferee, but most t rans fe rs are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies may issue sterling securities ( inc lud ing bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U.K. authorities. Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodes ian residents may buy sterling securities on the Stock Exchange against payment in fore ign currency or in sterling f rom an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported f rom the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on the Stock Exchange for settlement in fore ign currency or, in certain circumstances, for settlement in sterling excluding the inves tment currency p rem ium. Nonres iden ts must obtain permission to buy and sell securities in the United King- dom other than through the med ium of a professional dealer in securities, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian res iden ts may sell s ter l ing securities on the Stock Exchange for s ter l ing which may be held on External Account or, alternatively, may be t rans fe r red abroad at official market rates. Most t ransac t ions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England; subject to cer ta in cond i t ions, however, authorized banks may approve applications by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell sterling securities on the Stock Exchange. Except in respect of U.K. companies controlled by nonres iden ts of the Scheduled Territories (where Bank of England consent is r equ i r ed ), wa r ran ts issued by reg- istrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital paymen ts on ma tured securities registered in the names of nonresi- dents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addresses outside the Scheduled Territories. These warran ts may be paid by cred i t ing sterling to an External Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in the ir fore ign currency business. They may also switch such deposits into sterling on a covered basis. Ind iv idual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in fore ign currencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held aga inst forward liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are subject to control in the Un i ted K ingdom. Exemption under the Exchange Control Act, 1947 exists fo r: (1) the buying, selling, UNITED KINGDOM lending, and borrowing of gold coins minted in or before 1937; (2) the buying and selling of any gold coins minted a f ter 1937 and held in the United Kingdom, if the seller is a person resident in the United Kingdom and is not selling on behalf of a person resident outside the United Kingdom; and (3) the borrowing and lending of any gold coins minted af ter 1937 and held in the United Kingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are per- sons resident in the United Kingdom. Transactions both in gold coins not exempted above and in gold bullion may only be undertaken with permission. Permission is norma l ly given for the use of gold bullion for genuine indus tr ial and professional purposes. The sale of gold bullion for the manufac ture of gold coins, gold medals, etc., is prohibited unless specially authorized. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate in the United Kingdom. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. Bulk imports of gold coins, certain gold coins of num isma t ic interest minted a f ter 1937, and gold medals, medallions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bear ing inscriptions and manufac tured after 1937, other than those of limited weight and value, are subject to ind iv idual import licensing, and such licenses are normally given only to authorized dealers in gold. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. The export of gold bullion and of post-1937 gold coins to G ibra l tar and the Republic of Ireland is not normally permitted except with the approval of the local control authorities. Authority has been given to author- ized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Scheduled Territory resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign cur- rency. A license is required from the Department of Trade for the export of gold (and other) jewelry, etc., con ta in ing diamonds. The export of gold in manu- fac tu red fo rm over 100 years old and valued at .£4,000 and over also requires a license f rom the Department of Trade. Manufac tures of gold other than medals, etc., manu- fac tu red after 1937 may be imported without quanti- ta t ive restriction under Open General Import License f rom all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, and (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Ter- ritories. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of 0.25 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. Authorized banks may enter into 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM forward transactions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may also finance pur- chases of gold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories by lending foreign exchange and may accept gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or External Account sterling to nonres iden ts of the Sched- uled Territories. Changes during 1977 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions, directives, and regula- tions; most of these related to textiles. January 1. New quota levels for imports f rom coun- tries in the State Trading Area came in to effect. Sub- sequently there were several mod if ica t ions. January 18. Imports of certain men's and boys' undergarmen ts f rom the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina were subjected to quota. February 8. The Basle Arrangemen ts on s ter l ing bal- ances intended to help to reduce the role of s ter l ing as a reserve currency became fo rma l ly effective. The Bank for International Settlements and a group of par t ic ipa t ing central banks set up a f u nd of US$3 billion for an initial period of two years which would be available to the Un i ted Kingdom under certain con- ditions to finance reductions in o f f ic ial s ter l ing balances. The Un i ted Kingdom agreed to seek to reduce off ic ial sterling balances by the offer of fo re ign cu r rency bonds and by other app rop r ia te means, and to exercise re s t ra int with respect to f u t u re increases in pr iva te s te r l ing balances. March 8. Imports of men's and boys' kn i t ted shirts and T-shirts f rom Thailand were subjected to a quo ta which was superseded on May 5 by an EEC-Thailand Textiles Agreement. March 11. Following consu l ta t ions under Ar t ic le 3 of the GATT Mu l t i f iber A r rangemen t, impo r ts of men's and boys' kn i t ted shirts f rom the Ph i l ipp ines were sub- jected to a quota for the calendar year 1977. March 29. The budget proposals inc luded measures to strengthen exchange control powers over the ra i s ing of sterling finance by the use of bills of exchange, etc. by companies resident in the Un i ted K ingdom but controlled by nonresidents. These measures came into effect on December 16, and an extensive general permission was given to permit no rmal commerc ial t ransac t ions to con- t inue un impeded. In con junc t ion with the in troduc t ion of these measures, exchange control rules were altered to allow nonresident-controlled impor ters to borrow sterling w i thout l im i t. April 1. A provisional an t idump ing du ty of £31.50 a ton was imposed on nonalloy light steel sections imported f rom Spain. April 7. A provisional an t idump ing du ty of £20 a ton was imposed for three mon ths on nona l loy light steel sections imported f rom Japan. On Ju ly 7, th is was re- placed by an an t idump ing du ty of «£ 11 a ton. 434 April 8. It was announced that existing quotas on imports of cotton yarn f rom Spain, Greece, and Turkey would be extended, at approximately the same annual level, to the end of 1977. April 8. Following consultations between the EEC and Po land, the Polish authorities agreed to restrain their exports of men's, women's, and children's leather foo twear, in c lud ing sandals, to the Un i ted Kingdom in 1977 to certain acceptable levels. Following consulta- tions between the EEC and Roman ia, the Roman ian au thor i t ies agreed to restrain their exports of men's, women's, and children's footwear, inc lud ing sandals, to the Un i ted K ingdom in 1977 to certain acceptable levels. April 22. It was announced that the existing quota on impo r ts of cotton ya rn f rom Spain wou ld be extended to the end of 1977. May 19. A provisional an t idump ing du ty was imposed on nona l loy steel flats impor ted f rom Japan; it lapsed on August 18. May 26. It was announced that w i th effect from September 1, depositable fore ign currency which were not properly held in the custody of an authorized de- positary, would cease to be eligible for sale w i th the benef it of the inves tment currency p rem ium, unless placed in such custody by August 31 and cleared with the Bank of England; subsequently, the effective date was altered to November 1. June 14. The EEC Council adopted a decision estab- l i s h i ng quotas for impor ts f rom Viet N am. June 16. Impor ts of kn i t ted T-shirts f rom Ind ia were subjected to a quota for the period February 1- December 31. June 21. Following consu l ta t ions under Article 3 of the GATT Mu l t i f iber Arrangemen t, imports of kn i t ted sh i r ts and T-shirts f rom Pakistan were subjected to a quota for the period March 15-December 31. June 28. The EEC Commission extended the authori- zation given to the United Kingdom to restrict capital ou t f low, and not to l ibera l ize cer ta in capital movements a lready liberalized elsewhere in the EEC. It was announced that before the end of 1977, the Commission would re-examine the United Kingdom's economic situa- tion and would then decide whether the au tho r iza t ion should be mod i f ied, revoked or extended. The safeguard measures authorized the United King- dom to control (1) direct investment by U.K. residents in other member states and also l iqu ida t ion of this direct inves tmen t; (2) t ran s fe rs of capital belonging to U.K. res iden ts who emigrate (except t rans fe rs connected with the free movement of wo rke r s ); and (3) endowments, dowries, death duties, and property inves tmen ts other than those connected with the free movement of workers. July 1. The final reduction of 20 per cent in import du t ies on goods o r ig ina t ing in the EEC (other than ag r icu l tu ral products) and the final stage in aligning the U.K. ta r i ff to the Common Customs Tariff took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 20. Imports of certain undergarments from Spain were subjected to a quota for the period February 1- December 31. July 23. A quota was imposed for 1977 and 1978 on imports of monochrome portable television sets from Korea at 35,000 sets in each year. August 19. A quota to end-1978 was imposed on non- leather footwear imports from the Republic of China, and a surveillance licensing system was introduced for imports of leather footwear f rom Brazil, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Malaysia, Pak is tan, Spain, and the State Trading Area. August 26. Surveillance licensing was extended to imports of a range of special steels from non-EEC sources. September 1. The overall fore ign exchange dealing limits were raised by about 15 per cent and expressed in dollars rather than sterling as previously. Banks would in fu ture be entitled to use the whole of what were previ- ously open position limits for lending sterling by means of swaps or, conversely, to use the sterling swap limits to run open positions in foreign currencies. October 27. Exchange control rules were altered, as follows: 1. Inward direct investment —Permission would normally be given, on application to the Bank of Eng- land, to any nonresident-controlled m a n u f a c t u r i ng com- pany in the United Kingdom to borrow sterling w i thout restriction for its U.K. business. (This facility was already available to companies in the United Kingdom controlled by residents of the EEC or the OSA countries.) 2. Travel abroad —(a) A traveler on depa r tu re from the United Kingdom would be able to take out £100 instead of £25, in sterling notes, and £500, instead of £300, in foreign currency notes, ( b) Authorized banks and other authorized issuers of foreign exchange facili- ties for travel abroad were authorized to issue up to £500, instead of £300, per journey for private travel, and £100, instead of £75, a day w i th in the existing £3,000 max imum for business, professional, and official travel. Where a journey other than on business was to last two months or more, the limit on foreign currency facilities issuable without prior reference to the Bank of England was set at £ 1,000. 3. Cash gifts abroad—The total sum that might be remitted abroad by U.K. residents in the fo rm of cash gifts from their own resources would be £ 1,500 a donor a calendar year. (This replaced the two existing limits of £1,000 a donor a year for recipients in OSA coun- tries and £300 for recipients elsewhere. The total for allowances to dependents abroad remained unchanged at £2,000 a year.) 4. Basic allowance for emigrants—The max imum amount that might be taken out through the official foreign exchange market at the current ma rket rate of exchange on emigration from the Un i ted K ingdom to any destination (except Rhodesia) would be £40,000 UNITED KINGDOM a fam i ly un i t, instead of £20,000 for those going to OSA countries and for the elderly, and £5,000 for those going elsewhere. The period of restriction on transfer of sterling assets above the new limit remained unchanged at four years. Past emigrants whose assets were still restricted under the four-year rule would be allowed releases up to the new £40,000 limit. 5. Foreign currency retention—U.K. banks, mer- chants, and insurance companies were allowed to retain larger balances in foreign currencies for the financing of their fo re ign currency transactions. November 18. Imports f rom Brazil of cer ta in kn i t ted or crocheted unde rga rmen ts were subjected to a quo ta for the period September-December. December 15. It was announced that new arrange- ments for sterling finance for exports with credit terms of two years or more would be introduced by the Export Credits Gua ran tee Department (ECGD) f rom April 1, 1978. From that date the ECGD would ref inance only that part of a credit which was due to ma tu re a f ter five years. This change would not affect the terms on which exporters provide med ium- term and long-term credit to overseas buyers. The previously announced policy of switching the financing of some longer-term export credits f rom sterling to fore ign currencies would con t inue. December 16. The exchange control and import l icen s ing res tr ic t ions on gold coins and medals, which previously applied to items minted or manu fac tu red a f t er 1837, ceased for the most part to apply to those m in ted or m a n u f a c t u r ed between 1838 and 1937. December 21. The au thor i t ies announced changes in controls on capital outflows to take effect on January 1, 1978. These changes were made primarily w i th reference to U .K. unde r tak ings under the terms of its accession to the EEC. 1. For direct investments outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies, official exchange was normally made avail- able only for certain projects directly concerned with promo t ing exports of goods and services where the pro- spective benefit to the U.K. balance of payments was expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the invest- ment w i th in 18 mon ths and to con t inue thereaf ter. For such projects ("super-criterion" p ro jec ts ), official ex- change could be made available up to £250,000 or 50 per cent of the total, whichever was the greater. For direct investment in EEC countries, official exchange would now be made available up to the equivalent of £500,000 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever was larger, if the investment directly pro- moted exports of U.K. goods and services and was judged likely to produce benefits to the ba lance of pay- men ts equal to or exceeding the amount invested w i th in three years and con t inu ing the rea f te r; any balance must con t inue to be financed by other means, inc lud ing foreign cu r rency borrow ing and approved prof it retention. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 2. Personal allowances for capital movements were raised. The basic allowance which might be freely transferred by U.K. residents emigrating to other EEC countries was doubled to <£ 80,000 a family unit. A new allowance of <£ 1,500 a donor for cash gifts to EEC recipients was introduced in addition to the existing world-wide allowance. The limit for dowries to sons or daughters resident in other EEC countries in excess of the cash g ift allowances was raised to <£ 7,500. 3. Since 1965 (or since March 1974 in respect of OSA securities) there had been an exchange control re- quirement that transactions in investment currency and in foreign currency securities could normally only be effected if 25 per cent of the net proceeds of a holding of investment currency or foreign currency securities were disposed of through the official foreign exchange market and only the remaining 75 per cent were sold with the benefit of the investment currency prem ium. This 25 per cent surrender requirement was abolished in relation to all transactions in investment currency and foreign currency securities to which it previously applied. 4. New arrangements were also made for loan financed portfolio investment in quoted securities issued by the EEC, the European Investment Bank, the Euro- pean Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community. These included the provision that foreign currency loans taken up to purchase securi- ties issued by these organizations might now be repaid w i th official exchange over a five-year period. Previously, such loans were repayable only out of the realization proceeds of the foreign currency securities so acquired or, in the event of a shortfall, with investment currency. The EEC Commission authorized the maintenance on a temporary basis of the remaining restrictions on those capital movements covered by the terms of the United Kingdom's accession to the EEC. The following change took place at the beginning of 1978: January 1. The importation of all steel products f rom countries in the State Trading Area, except Ro- man ia, was prohibited. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31,1977) Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar was estab- lished on October 18, 1973 at 0.736662 gram of fine gold, corresponding to US$42.22 a fine ounce or US$1.20635 = SDR I.1 The convertibility of the U.S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets has been suspended and exchange rates are not maintained within any stipulated margin f rom parity. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury deals with license applications involving financial or commercial transac- tions directly or indirectly with Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regula- tions, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations. It also has admini- strative responsibility for the accounts of the People's Republic of China blocked under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, and for accounts in the United States of Czechoslovakia, Estonia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regula- tions. The Bureau of Customs of the Department of the Treasury administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. A global import quota on sugar has been ma in ta ined since 1974 at a nonrestric- tive level of 7 million metric tons annually. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petro- leum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control —other than crude petroleum and petroleum products —the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cambodia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, North Korea, and Viet Nam, and those imposed pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 with regard to Rhodesia. Most current payments involving the People's Republic of China, except those involving strategic goods, are authorized; however, assets of the People's Republic of China, which were blocked as of May 6, 1971, remain blocked.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports of Cambodian, Cuban, North Korean, Viet- namese, and Rhodesian origin are prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes ( ta r i f f - ra te quo tas ); (3) sugar; (4) certain meat; and (5) stainless steel and alloy tool steel products. Among the quantita- tive import quotas, all except those for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, butter oil, and sugar are on a country-of-production basis. In addition, imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program, and import license fees. Certain dairy products which are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the GATT Arrange- ment Regarding International Trade in Textiles and to 18 bilateral textile agreements negotiated under the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements set the levels for the partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. In 1977 the United States negotiated new bilateral textile and apparel agreements with seven of these countries. These agreements were negotiated in accordance with the terms of the Arrangement. The agreements provide for orderly expansion of trade while at the same time recognizing U.S. concerns in impacted categories. As at the end of 1977, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, but these were generally subject to import licenses and import license fees. Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mutton are governed in principle by 12 bilateral agreements and one memoran- dum of understanding, as an alternative to the imposition of manda to ry quotas under the Meat Import Act of 1964. Imports of a number of manufactured products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries (shoes, televisions, and specialty steels). The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for all purposes is permitted only under license. Other payments and trans- fers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, and Viet Nam, which are permitted only under license. 1 U.S. Public Law No. 94-564 provides that the par value of the U.S. dollar in terms of gold and SDKs will be repealed when the Proposed Second Amendment to the Fund's Articles of Agreement enters into force. 2 In addition, certain enemy and occupied area property blocked dur ing World War II remains blocked (Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania). Payments restric- tions in respect of Cuba were eased to permit expenditures for travel purposes. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Depart- ment of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammun i t ion to Cambodia, the People's Repub- lic of China, Cuba, Eastern Europe, Nor th Korea, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued except for educational, medical, or human i ta r ian items. All exports (except phonograph records, publica- tions, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, and Viet Nam are subject to indi- vidual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than CMEA members, certain Arab states, Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, and Viet Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's ship- ment. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. From time to time, exports of certain commodities to all destinations have been subject to controls for reasons of short supply; as at the end of 1977 such controls were applicable to crude petroleum and petroleum fue ls. Export arrangements for wheat, corn, sorghum, soy- beans, and soybean oil are subject to reporting require- ments in order to avoid the need for controls. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohi- bited to and f rom Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rho- desia, and Viet Nam. Individuals leaving or entering the coun try w i th more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and /or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other form of approval requirements, although in certain instances compliance with specified bank ing regulations may be required; with a few exceptions, the United States does not impose special restrictions on inward investment. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rho- desia, and Viet Nam, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the ma i ls ). Federal Reserve member banks must meet reserve requirements of 4 per cent on net Eurodollar borrowings f rom their foreign branches and f rom foreign banks. In 438 add i t ion, the U.S. head office of a member bank must meet reserve requirements of 1 per cent against deposits that its fo re ign branches used for lending to U.S. non- bank residents. Also, at the request of the Federal Reserve Board, nonmember banks that are ma jo r i ty- owned by foreign banks and U.S. agencies and branches of fore ign banks vo lun ta r i ly ma in ta in reserves against increases above May 1973 levels in certain net liabilities to (or reduc t ions in net c la ims on) fo re ign bank s. Mem- ber banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board f rom soliciting or encouraging placement of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a def in i te, necessary purpose outside the United States. The fore ign currency posi- tions of banks, whether overall or with respect to indi- v idual currencies, are not subject to limitation. How- ever, the Federal Reserve Board stated in 1973 and again in 1975 that it would not be in the public interest for member banks to accept time deposits denominated in a fo re ign currency at their U.S. offices. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, except for gold transactions involving Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rhodesia, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bu l l ion and gold coins, w i th the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not requ ired, with the same coun try exceptions. Producers of gold may sell the ir ou tput in the f ree market, with the same coun t ry exceptions. Gold may be freely imported except f rom the countries mentioned above and except coun t e r f e it gold coins. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at the ir face value. Commercial impor ts of gold jewe l ry are f ree of quan- t i ta t ive restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no duty on gold ore, bu l l ion, or coins. All fo rms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes during 1977 January 5. The Export-Import Bank lowered by up to 0.50 per cent its interest rates on loans to f inance exports. The new rates range f rom 8 per cent on loans w i th ma tu r i t ies of 6 years or less to 9 per cent on loans w i th ma tu r i t ies of 14 years or longer. January 10. The Treasury Department and the Fed- eral Reserve announced that the Un i ted States would par t ic ipa te in the arrangements agreed in principle at Basle for a med ium- term fac i l i ty in the amount of US$3 b i l l ion re la t ing to official sterling balances. The U.S. pa r t ic ipa t ion of US$1 billion in this stand-by fac i l i ty would be provided through the Federal Reserve System and the U.S. Treasury Exchange Stabilization Fund. January 10. The Treasury amended the statement of l icens ing policy in the Cuban Assets Control Regulations regarding trade w i th Cuba by foreign affiliates of U.S. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution firms. The change allowed licensing of brokerage trans- actions, that is, transactions in Cuban exports to, or imports from, countries other than the one in which the affiliate was located. The amendment specified that all foreign aff i l ia tes engaging in licensed trade must be gen- erally independent of the parent firm and that there could be no involvement of the parent firm in licensed transactions. February 7. The Treasury announced the imposition of countervailing duties on imports of certain scissors and shears from Brazil. February 28. Duty-free treatment (under the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences —GSP) was with- drawn by Executive Order from 115 i tems when imported f rom certain specified developing countries, because such exports exceeded "competitive need" l im i- tations. (GSP status con t inued to be accorded to the same items when imported f rom other eligible develop- ing countries.) At the same time, du ty - f ree t rea tment was restored to 121 other items. March 15. The Treasury announced that it would impose a coun terva i l ing du ty of 21.4 per cent on imports of cotton yarn from Brazil to offset subsidies by the Braz i l ian Government. The duty was reduced to 19.6 per cent w i th effect f rom June 21. March 17. The United States modified its specialty steel impo rt quo ta res tr ic t ions to perm it EEC countries to export an additional 3,141 tons of stainless steel plate, sheet, and s tr ip to the Un i ted States af ter March 25. In the course of the year other m inor mod i f ica t ions were made w i th in the overall specialty steel impo rt quota l im i ts. March 18. Public Law No. 95-12 reinstated the embargo aga inst chrome and critical and strategic mate- rials of Rhodesian o r ig in. The law prohibited the import of steel m i ll products unless accompanied by a certificate of or ig in s ta t ing that the products did not con ta in chro- m ium of Rhodesian or ig in. March 21. The new General License issued as an amendment (515 .560) to the Cuban Assets Control Regu la t ions (31 CFR Part 515) con ta ined the fo l low ing prov is ions: (1) Persons v i s i t ing Cuba would be allowed to pay for the ir t ranspo r ta t ion and ma in tenance expen- ditures wh i le in Cuba. (2) A visitor to Cuba would be allowed to buy a m ax imum of US$100 wor th of Cuban goods (at foreign market va lue) for personal use and not for resale. This allowance might be used only once every six mon ths. ( 3) Journa l is ts, researchers, news and documen ta ry f i lmmakers, and others v i s i t ing Cuba for s im i lar purposes, were allowed to acquire Cuban films, books, magazines and s im i lar publications, directly related to their professional activities. A second am endm ent (515 .561) to the Cuban Assets Control Regulations authorized payment or reimburse- ment by U.S.-owned or controlled fore ign firms of expenditures inc iden tal to travel to Cuba and to travel UNITED STATES and ma in tenance in Cuba by their foreign national employees. Similar amendmen ts were made to the Foreign Assets Control Regulations governing travel to North Korea, Viet N am, or Cambodia. March 22. The International Trade Commission (ITC) recommended an increase in ta r i f fs on imports of color television sets from 5 per cent to 25 per cent ( for the first two years of a five-year p rog ram ). This recom- menda t ion was denied and on May 20 it was announced th at the Un i ted States had concluded an agreement with the Japanese Government that limited exports of color televisions to the United States f rom July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1980 to 1.56 million complete units and 190,000 incomplete receivers a year. Presidential Proc- lama t ion No. 4511 of June 24, 1977 required the Cus toms Service to monitor, w i th effect f rom July 1, complete and incomplete color television receivers and subassemblies thereof entered, or w i thdrawn f rom ware- house, for consump t ion in the United States on or after J u ly 1, 1977 and through June 30, 1980. April 1. The President's Special Representative for Trade Negotiations was instructed to seek orderly mar- k e t ing agreements in nonrubber footwear with the Repub l ic of China and Korea, and the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Labor were instructed to cooperate in ass is t ing the domestic footwear indus t ry and its workers. On June 22 Presidential Proclamation No. 4510, c i t ing the need to restore orderly marke t ing a r rangemen ts, imposed temporary quotas on imports of non rubber foo twear under item numbers 923.90, 923.91, 923.92, 923.93, and 923.94 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States, for the Republic of China and Korea. The quotas were applicable to foo twear exported on and a f ter June 28. April 5. In accordance with Public Law No. 95-12, the Treasury issued amendmen ts to the Rhodesian Sanc- t ions Regulations to prevent Rhodesian chrome from en te r ing the United States contained in other products. April 7. The Treasury imposed a 4 per cent ad val- orem coun te rva i l ing duty on imports of unwrought zinc f rom Spain. April 7. The Treasury increased f rom 9 per cent to 20 per cent the so-called "entry bonds" that must be posted by impor ters of Japanese color television sets to meet po ten t ial coun terva i l ing du t ies that might be levied on such imports. May 4. The Treasury announced the imposition of a 0.25 per cent ad valorem coun terva i l ing du ty on nu ts and bolts imported from Japan. May 11. The Treasury revoked a 5 per cent counter- vailing du ty that had been imposed in Janua ry 1976 on foo twear f rom the Republic of China. June 2. The Treasury announced it would impose add i t ional countervailing duties on impor ts of handbags f r om some fac i l i t ies in Korea. June 22. The Export Adm in is t ra t ion Amendmen ts of 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1977 (H.R. 5840) was signed into law, expanding exist- ing "anti-boycott" legislation. Among the ma jor provi- sions were the imposition of severe penalties on U.S. firms or persons that refused or required others to refuse to do business with a boycotted country. The law left unchanged the requirement that businesses must report boycott-related requests and pressures to the Department of Commerce. July 7. The ITC ruled that imports of self-propelled bituminous paving equipment from Canada were injur- ing a U.S. industry, and might therefore be subjected to antidumping duties by the U.S. Treasury. August 8. Hong Kong and U.S. officials announced the signing of a five-year textile restraint agreement effective January 1, 1978. The agreement allowed for an overall growth of 1.5 per cent in shipments of cotton and woolen apparel by Hong Kong to the United States in 1978, to the equivalent of 957 million square yards, and for a growth rate of 6 per cent in the succeeding years. August 31. Officials of the United States and Korea announced a new textile agreement for 1978-82 which provided for lower quota growth rates for Korean textile exports to the United States in sensitive categories than under the earlier agreement expiring in September 1977. The aggregate annual growth rate for 1978-82 in Korean textile exports would be 6.5 per cent. October 3. The Treasury announced a tentative deter- mination that certain Japanese steelmakers were dump- ing carbon steel plate in the United States, and asked the companies in question to post bonds to cover esti- mated dump ing duties of about 32 per cent on all fur ther imports of carbon steel plate from Japan. October 20. The ITC determined that termination or modification of the import relief presently in effect on imports of stainless and alloy tool steel would adversely affect the domestic industry. October 28. By an amendment to H.R. 5675, gold clause contracts were made enforceable in U.S. courts, thus complementing the 1975 law which permitted the private ownership of gold in the United States. Also, multicurrency contracts, which had been prohibited since June 5, 1933, were made enforceable in U.S. courts. October. The three U.S. bank regulatory agencies —the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora- tion —proposed jointly a revised financial reporting requirement for the provision of additional informa t ion on the foreign operations of U.S. banks, as well as on the operations of large U.S. banks. The proposed modi- fications, to be implemented in the December 1978 income and condition reports by banks, would require the following informa t ion: (1) new subsidiary income statements for separate reporting of domestic and for- eign office operations; (2) new loan and deposit sched- ules for foreign offices; (3) an additional breakdown to identify foreign and domestic customers with respect to 440 specified types of accounts where such details might be significant; and (4) supplementary reports from large banks detailing interest and fees on loans and operations in federal funds and related transactions. The proposed supplementary reports would affect 140 banks that have one or more foreign branches, foreign subsidiaries, branches in U.S. possessions and territories, and Edge Act subsidiaries, as well as an additional 280 banks that have over US$300 million in total assets but no foreign offices. November 1. The Treasury announced a preliminary de term ina t ion that subsidies were being paid on exports of handbags by Colombia. November 3. The Treasury amended the Cuban Assets Control Regulations to authorize foreign affiliates of U.S. firms to bunker and supply Cuban vessels and to fuel Cuban aircraft. November 11. The ITC ruled that imports of railway track ma in tenance equipment from Austria were injur- ing domestic producers, and might therefore be subject to an t idump ing duties by the Treasury. November 12. A variable import fee was imposed on imported sugar. Initially this amounted to a max imum of 3.3 cents a pound. In addition, a tar iff increase of 0.9 cents a pound was imposed, yielding total additional import charges at a maximum level of 4.2 cents a pound. The previous duty had been 1.875 cents a pound. December 1. The reserve requirement on loans by the foreign branches of U.S. banks to U.S. residents (Regulation M) was lowered from 4 per cent to 1 per cent. December 6. The Government announced that as part of a five-point plan to revive the U.S. steel industry, a reference price system, based on the cost of production of the most efficient producers, would be introduced, and steel import prices would be monitored to prevent for- eign suppliers from dumping in the U.S. market. December 12. The ITC reported that imports of bolts, nuts, and large screws of iron or steel, primarily from Japan, threatened serious in ju ry to domestic producers. It recommended the imposition of ad valorem import duties at a level of 30 per cent during the first two years of import relief, and 25 per cent, 20 per cent, and 20 per cent, respectively, for the subsequent three years. December 14. The Treasury announced amendments to its international capital reporting requirements. Exist- ing reporting forms would be replaced for reports to be filed on and after April 30, 1978. The new forms would provide significant data not previously available and would also reduce the reporting burden on banks. December 28. Public Law No. 95-223 was enacted revising Presidential wartime and national emergency economic powers. Title I made Section 5 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act applicable only in wartime. However, existing authorities of that Act being exercised by virtue of a national emergency may continue to be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES exercised. Title II created a new International Emer- gency Economic Powers Act, applicable in time of "national emergency" declared by the President to deal with an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States. The new Act included essentially the same powers as Section 5 ( b ); however, the authority to regulate the importing, exporting, hoarding, melting, or earmark ing of gold or silver coin or bullion was deleted. In addition, the authority to vest foreign property, included in Section 5 ( b ), was not included in the new Act. Title III amended the Export Administration Act of 1969 to pro- vide authority for the regulation of non-U.S. origin exports by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. December 28. The Treasury announced that it would waive countervailing duties on imports of handbags, footwear, and leather apparel from Uruguay, subject to the condition that Uruguay phase out its effective export subsidies on those products by January 1, 1979. Rebates on all other products exported to the United States should be phased out by January 1, 1983. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange System No par value or central rate for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the in- tervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on trans- fers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to such countries.2 Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Administration of Control With the exception of measures relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Empire, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta i tse lf, are considered foreign countries. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in l im i ts specified in the exchange control regula- tions, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to comp i le balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac t ions relating to fore ign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the iThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 for each transfer. The commissions are not levied on transfers ordered by public treasuries and similar institutions or by the Postal Administration of Upper Volta. 442 Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Indus tr ial Development, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Ac- count country. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made in West A f r ican accounting units through the West Afri- can Clearing House. Certain settlements w i th Ghana are made through special accounts. Certain settlements w i th the People's Republic of China and the Federal Republic of Germany are also channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs (or other Franc Area cur- rencies) through Foreign Accounts. All settlements with Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspond- ents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may in principle be made freely, although exceptionally, special regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EEC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Imports f rom non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are adm i t ted in accordance w i th an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lations. Most imports are subject to a customs s tamp tax of 6 per cent and an import surcharge of 6 per cen t. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion are empowered to make payments to foreign countries, on behaif of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any fore ign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing a f ter re tu rn to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Resi- dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Opera- tions Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amoun t, if declared upon entry or acquired by d raw ing on a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documen ta t ion. F ina l ly, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes of Operations Account countries. UPPER VOLTA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agri- cu l tural products require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are per- mitted free ly but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regula- tions. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within two months of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days af ter arrival of the goods at their de s t ina t ion ). All export transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the ex- porter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and subm it a customs certification. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical duty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom resi- dents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or f rom Rhodesia or South A f r ica. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account, as well as any amount of foreign b ank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and within eight days a f t er re turn surrender these to an authorized bank. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rho- desia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital move- ments between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta. Such operations require prior authorization by 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are securities operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta have previously been author- ized. With the exception of controls over foreign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions listed in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the payments or collections connected with them. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Upper Vo l ta4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of either type of investment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Since October 30, 1975, foreign firms operat- ing in Upper Volta are obliged to "Voltaize" their capi- tal within two years, up to at least 51 per cent in vital or priority sectors and up to at least 35 per cent in all others. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sales value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 4 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 444 subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- s tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one bor- rower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign cur- rency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not consti- tu t ing a direct investment requires the special authoriza- tion of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferen- tial categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1977 June 16. The customs tar iff was modified by Order No. 77-23. September 26. The prohibition on all transactions with Portugual was lifted by Decree No. 77-374. December 29. Goods originating in the member coun- tries of the EEC became subject to customs duties (Decree No. 77-496). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for Uruguay's currency, the New Peso. Exchange trans- actions take place in a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market and a financial market. Payments and receipts in respect of imports other than books (except when the exchange is purchased more than 120 days af ter the due d a t e ), exports other than books, freight and insurance on imports, and most public sector exchange operations are settled in the commercial market, where the exchange rates are fixed (a l though adjusted f rom time to t im e ). All other exchange trans- actions take place in the financial market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were NUr$5.40 and NUr$5.41, respectively, per US$1, and those in the financial market were NUr$5.385 and NUr$5.390, respectively, per US$1. ' Various additional effective exchange rates arise f rom the following: ( 1) the application of exchange taxes to the proceeds from certain traditional exports; (2) the payment of subsidies through tax credit certificates on proceeds f rom certain exports; ( 3) a 40 per cent tax on certain profit remittances; and (4) the sale in the finan- cial market of the excess (sobreaforo) of the actual f.o.b. value over the assumed value (aforo or m in imum sur- render va lue) on wool exports. The Central Bank of Uruguay supplies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for imports, and the proceeds f rom exports (valued at the officially assessed price or the aforo where applicable) must be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no restrictions on exchange transactions in the financial market; exchange houses, whose principal business is mak ing exchange transactions, must be authorized by the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange transactions in the commercial ma rket are carried out through authorized banks, bank ing houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the financial market. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges, export taxes, and consular charges and accepts export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries w i th which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; these coun- tries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other coun- tries in the commercial market are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Most transactions in the financial market take place in U.S. dollars, Argentine pesos, or Brazilian cruzeiros. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are gener- ally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. An import declaration must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic before the goods are shipped. Imports of fu l ly assembled auto- mobiles are temporarily prohibited. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. Goods are classified into eight categories and are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 55, 65, 90, 110, or 150 per cent, payable at the time of registration. Imports from LAFTA countries receive fu ll or partial exemption from these surcharges. Most imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required and the above-mentioned import sur- charges, to an additional import duty of 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value, and a number of other miscellaneous fees, payable upon customs clearance. All imports are sub- ject to consular charges payable in new pesos and cal- culated on the f.o.b. value at the commercial market rate. These charges are 3.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead; 0.25 per cent foi imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enter- prise ( A N C A P ); 4 per cent for all other private sector imports; and 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP. l Import duties and surcharges are in most cases cal- culated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab- lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an officially assessed price, which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Importers may purchase foreign exchange in the commercial market at any time from 5 days before to 120 days after payment falls due. Purchases at any later date must be made in the financial market unless they are refinanced within 120 days. Purchases with an exchange rate guarantee require a peso deposit at the time of application; the exchange is provided on the due date and the applicable exchange rate is the commercial market rate on the date of application for the guarantee. The facility is available for private sector imports, except imports of capital goods. 1 A unified custom tax (imaduni) was introduced with effect from Janua ry 1, 1978. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Payments for Invisibles Freight and insurance on imports are settled in the commercial market. Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the f inanc ial market. Profit remittances exceeding 20 per cent of the invested capital are subject to a tax of 40 per cent. There are no limita- tions on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal traditional exports are subject to taxes, which are withheld by the Bank of the Republic on the basis of either the f.o.b. value or the aforo value of the commodity concerned. The tax is levied in pesos per unit of export commodity (as a per- centage of the f.o.b. value for woo l ), but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export; for exports of wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered in fu ll to the Central Bank upon receipt. At the end of 1977 the prescribed max imum surrender period was generally not later than 60 days af ter the date of the shipment authorization request for trad i t ional exports (240 days for unwashed woo l ). D i f fe rent periods were applied for non trad i t ional exports. For wool exports, m in imum f.o.b. values (m i n im um surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. There is an export pref inanc ing arrangement for the advance surrender of the exchange proceeds f rom all exports. Surrender must be effected before the export is registered. Export subsidies are granted in the fo rm of tax credit certificates of up to 36 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of ce r ta in ( p r im a r i ly n o n t r a d i t i o n a l) exports. Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially au tho r ized ), specified minerals ( inc lud ing iron, copper, zinc, a l um i n um, and n i c k e l ), and sheepskins are pro- hibited. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles. Any individual or firm may accept for- eign currencies at the rate prevailing in the financial market. There are no limitations on the import of fore ign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely through the financial market, with the exception of certain inward and ou tward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. However, certain borrowing abroad is controlled, and the amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under the Foreign Investment Law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. 446 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the trans- actions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Any private purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, however, must either be financed f rom the buyer's own exchange holdings or settled through the financial market. Imports and exports of gold for industrial use are settled through the commercial market. Changes during 1977 Dur ing 1977, the buying and selling rates in the com- mercial market were adjusted at frequent irregular inter- vals f rom NUr$3 .960 and NUr$4.00 per US$1 at J anu a ry 1 to NUr$5.40 and NUr$5.41 per US$1 at December 31, resulting in a cumulative depreciation of 35.8 per cent in terms of pesos per U.S. dollar. During the year, the buy ing and selling rates in the financial m a rk et moved f r om NUr$3.990 and NUr$3.995 per US$1 to NUr$5.385 and NUr$5.390 per US$1. Du r ing 1977, the taxes (detracciones) on exports of sheepskins and cowhides, stated in terms of new pesos per k i logram of export, were increased periodically, ris- ing roughly in line with the rate of devaluation. January 26. Decree No. 49 /977 extended Decree No. 36/976 exempting fertilizers, raw materials for the m anu f a c tu re of fertilizers, sacking, seeds, and innocu- lants f r om the payment of customs and additional duties, surcharges, and any other import tax. January 26. Decree No. 53/977 extended to Decem- ber 3 1 , 1 9 77 the exemption f rom surcharges, duties, and taxes on imports of machinery and equipment for the use of the leather footwear, woolen textile, marble and gran- ite, tann ing, and leather goods industries. February 2. A tax of NUr$220 a ton was levied on exports of beef registered between October 1, 1976 and Janua ry 31, 1977. February 28. Under Central Bank Circular No. 812, the time limit on the purchase of foreign exchange for imports was lowered from 180 days to 120 days after the payment to the supplier falls due. March 9. Decree No. 134/77 reduced by 20 per cent the rates of most tax credit certificates (reintegros)', the measure took effect on July 1, 1977. March 10. Under Central Bank Circular No. 816, the m in imum surcharge of 10 per cent, established by Decree No. 125/977 of March 2, 1977, was applied to almost all imports, including most imports previously exempt f rom the 7 per cent surcharge. The 7 per cent emergency surcharge was eliminated, and the surcharge rates of 75, 120, 150, and 200 per cent were lowered to 65, 90, 110, and 150 per cent, respectively. March 10. Central Bank Circular No. 817 modified the system of advance surrender of export proceeds for certain exports (preanticipo). May 12. Under Central Bank Circular No. 837 the practice of the Central Bank paying compensation for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution delays in supplying foreign exchange under the system of purchases with exchange rate guarantee (ventas futuras) was eliminated. May 24. Under Central Bank Circular No. 838, the commission charged on the peso counterpart of the advance surrender of exchange proceeds for exports (preanticipo) was raised f rom 12 per cent to 15 per cent. June 6. Under Central Bank Circular No. 843, pay- ments to Venezuela for petroleum imports were to be channeled through the LAFTA Mu l t i la teral Compensa- tion and Reciprocal Mechanism. The c ircu lar also liber- alized conditions for impor t ing capital goods on credit f rom Argentina and Brazil. June 30. Decree No. 368 /77 established a tax of NUr$650 a ton on exports of beef registered on or a f t er February 1, 1977. July 6. By Decree No. 373 /77 the in t roduc t ion of a un if ied customs charge (impuesto aduanero unico) and an ad valorem customs fee (tasa de movilizacion de bultos), due to come in to effect on July 1, was postponed. Law No. 14684 of August 2 established that these charges and fees would become effective on Janua ry 1, 1978. July 25. Decree No. 415 /77 provided that the tax on beef (see June 30 above) was to be applied to exchange contracts concluded with the Bank of the Repub l ic up to June 30, 1977, and thereafter only to those contracts related to expor ts of ex is t ing stocks a l ready in s laugh te r- houses at the end of June. October 17. Under Central Bank Circular No. 878, the peso counterpart advanced by the Cen tral Bank to exporters against their foreign exchange surrender of f u t u re export proceeds was reduced f rom 90 per cent and 80 per cent on non t rad i t ional and t rad i t ional exports, respectively, to 60 per cent applied to all exports equally. The commission charged was changed f rom a fixed 15 per cent to 30 per cent of the average interest rate accepted on treasury bills (resulting at the time in a URUGUAY charge of about 18 per cent of the value of the export con t rac t ). The penalty rate charged if the final export proceeds fell short by more than 5 per cent of the export value was raised f rom a fixed 50 per cent to 125 per cent of the average interest rate accepted on treasury bills issued on the date on which the Central Bank peso advance was made. October 26. Decree No. 588/977 provided a maxi- mum surcharge of 65 per cent for imports that were con- sidered to be competing with domestic industry. This max imum rate was to be reduced to 50 per cent and to 30 per cent effective Janua ry 1, 1979 and Janua ry 1, 1980, respectively. The max imum surcharge for imports that had already been declared prior to October 26 as competing with domestic industry remained at 90 per cent. November 8. Decree No. 595/977 authorized the Central Bank to conduct open market operations on its own account in foreign currency denominated treasury bonds; previously the Central Bank could conduct such operations only for the account of the Treasury. November 9. Decree No. 622 /77 established that imports of meat offal, fish meal, soya meal, and sunflower meal would be subject only to the m in imum import sur- charge of 10 per cent. The prohibition on exports of protein concentrates was eliminated. November 9. Decree No. 628 /77 established that sweet potatoes, squash, and green vegetables would be subject only to the m in imum import surcharge of 10 per cent. November 9. Decree No. 632 /77 provided that agri- cultural products which were either in short supply or whose domestic prices exceeded by more than 20 per cent the established m in imum producer prices could be authorized to be imported free of customs duties and all other charges, except the m in imum 10 per cent sur- charge. All prohibitions on exports of crop products were eliminated. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency un it of Venezuela is the Bolivar. The exchange rate is Bs 4.2925 per US$1, except that a rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1 applies in any exchange transactions arising in connection w i th the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries in the Vene- zuelan hydrocarbon and iron ore industries. The Cen- tral Bank's buying rate for all transactions other than those of the public sector and international organizations is Bs4 .28 per US$1. The Central Bank's buy ing rate for the public sector and international organizations and the selling rate between the Central Bank and the com- mercial banks is Bs 4.2925 per US$1.1 The commercial banks purchase fo re ign exchange from the public at rates close to Bs 4.28 per US$1. Com- mercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.30 per US$1 for all transactions; foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained f rom the Central Bank. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. Venezuela forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as f rom July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commodity; for certain agricultural products, the prior approval of the Agr icu l tural Ma rke t ing Corporation must be obtained before applications for export licenses are submitted to these ministries. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) is charged with supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of fore ign technology and the use of foreign patents and trademarks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and U ruguay may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. In addition, the import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include fu l ly assembled automobiles, certain textiles, 1 The Central Bank does not sell fore ign exchange to the public but does sell minor amoun ts to its s ta ff and cer ta in gove rnment officials, for travel expenses, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. 448 coffee, citrus fruit, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, natural pearls, and matches. Many other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quan t i ta t ive restrictions are ma in ta ined on some of these items, irrespective of origin. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South Afr ica. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan t i ty imported. All other commodities are free f rom import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited in prin- ciple to 20 per cent per annum of registered foreign capital, in accordance w i th Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and person- nel of in terna t ional organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commod i t ies are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodi- ties. Export licenses for most commodities are issued by the M in is try of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calcu- lated to prevent the f .o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from fa l l ing below specified mini- mum amoun ts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangemen ts based on guaranteed minimum prices may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Non trad i t ional exports, as well as certain agricultural exports, are eligible for freely negotiable tax certificates, as an export incentive, provided that the value added nationally is at least 30 per cent. All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited, as are exports of petroleum and military equip- ment to the People's Republic of China and Nor th Korea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mu tual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for invest- ment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regu- lates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not norma l ly deal in gold w i th the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also f rom the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice im- ports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of VENEZUELA customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. All imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consular duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3.5 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1977 February 1. Decree No. 2023 provided that the Cen- tral Government and state agencies must buy products of local manufacturers provided these are not more expensive than imports on which the duty is more th an 20 per cent. February 8. Decree No. 2031 extended from May 1 to December 31 the deadline for companies operating in 17 economic sectors reserved for national enterprises to sell at least 80 per cent of their stock to Venezuelans, and the companies were permitted to apply for a further extension of 12 months. April 18. Import licensing requirements and import duties on private sector imports of food (except for coffee, rice, and sugar) and glass and tin containers were suspended for three months. May 26. Decree No. 2166 established a Public Sector Import Commission with power of prior authorization for all public sector imports. Such authorization would be required to obtain a letter of credit, financing, and exemption from import duties. For 1978 the Commis- sion asked all public sector institutions to submit annual import programs, which could be modified subsequently only w i th the concurrence of the Commission. July 18. Free importation of a broad range of food products was extended to October 23. August 15. National enterprises were permitted to increase foreign participation f rom 20 per cent to 49 per cent, provided this ratio was achieved by increased capitalization and not by purchases of existing equity by foreign investors. International financial institutions would be considered as neutral investors and would be excluded f rom calculations to determine whether a company was national, mixed, or foreign. September 6. It was announced that all import licenses issued with effect from August 10 would be valid for one year from the date of issue. October 19. The liberalization of imports of basic food items was fur ther extended to January 23, 1978. November 8. Under Decree No. 2442, adopting Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact, the limits on foreign dividend remittances and the reinvestment ceil- ing were raised to 20 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System 1 Viet Nam has two currency areas corresponding to the former North and South Viet Nam. No par value has been established with the Fund for the South Viet- namese Dong, which is the currency used in Fund transactions. A representative rate has been established for the South Vietnamese dong of SD 2.130857 = SDR 1. This rate is used for noncommercial transactions in the South. On December 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SD 1.85 and SD 1.90, respectively, per US$1. A premium of 25 per cent applies to all inward private transfers and receipts from tourists in Aus tra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singa- pore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The exchange rate of the North Vietnamese dong is determined periodically on the basis of a currency basket whose composition and weights are adjusted to changed circumstances, including expected developments in major currencies. On December 31, 1977 the buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were ND 2.45 and ND 2.47, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for the other currencies quoted by the State Bank are based on the daily average exchange rate of the respective currency in terms of the U.S. dollar during the previous mon th. A premium of 50 per cent applies to all inward private transfers and receipts from tourism in Australian dol- lars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars.2 Nontrade transactions with countries w i th which Viet Nam has bilateral pay- ments agreements 3 take place at exchange rates specified in those agreements. For foreign trade transactions an accounting exchange rate is used, determined as the rate which equates the cost of total exports in local currency with the corre- sponding foreign exchange earnings dur ing a base period. This rate is reviewed periodically in the light of internal and external cost and price developments. The same rate is applied to imports. Trade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, the People's Republic of China, and North Korea are settled in "bilateral rubles" at an ex- change rate of ruble 1 = ND 3.27. The exchange rate between the North Vietnamese 1 On May 2, 1978 the Government announced the introduction of a new currency and a comprehensive reform of the exchange rate system designed to un ify the two currency areas. 2 The Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen were added with effect f rom February 15, 1978. 3 At present Viet Nam has bilateral payments agreements with ten countries that are not members of the Fund —Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, North Korea, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. and with five Fund members —Guinea, Mali, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 450 dong and the South Vietnamese dong is ND 1 = SD 0.80. The only transactions permitted between the two regions are trade transactions conducted by state enterprises, and officially authorized travel for which max imum amounts of exchange transactions are set by the authorities. There are restrictions as to the nature and amount of goods that can be carried by a traveler. Administration of Control Viet Nam does not yet have a common exchange con- trol law. All exchange and trade regulations applying in the South before May 1975 have been repudiated and new legislation similar to that prevailing in the Nor th has been introduced progressively. Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. All foreign trade is a state monopoly and is administered by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried out by specialized state import- export corporations. Import and export licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade upon application by the import-export corporation are granted only for im- ports and exports contained in the foreign trade plan. All foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in nonresident accounts either in foreign currencies or in North or South Vietnamese currencies. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currencies that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import and export plan is drawn up annually for the entire country based on import needs and export possibilities. Import and export transactions are carried out by about 15 state export-import corporations. Some of these corporations have their own producing units, while others contract with supply enterprises. In prin- ciple, the price received by the producing enterprise bears no relation to world prices, since the sale from the producer to the trad ing corporation is a domestic transaction at prices set by the authorities. Nonetheless, given that goods for export are usually of higher quality than those for the domestic market and that a policy of export incentives is being followed, goods for export command higher prices than s im i lar ones oriented to the domestic market. Imports effected by the state trad ing corporations are sold in the domestic market at prices set by the authorities. Profits and losses of state trading enterprises are transferred to, or covered by, the state budget. All payments for trade transactions need the authorization of the State Bank and are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are nor- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade and any other receipts f rom foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require ind iv idual au thor- ization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the t ransac t ion. All travel abroad needs ind iv idual authorization and is pres- ently limited to official business for which a ll foreign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in non- socialist countries who had left the coun try before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations the amount of which is determined by the State Bank for each individual case. Receipts f rom invisible trans- actions have to be surrendered to the State Bank w i th in seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currencies needs the special permission of the State Bank. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for the estab- lishment of three forms of foreign inves tmen t: ( 1) in- vestment in the production of goods intended solely for VIET NAM exports; (2) jo int ventures between a fore ign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and ( 3) production sharing partnerships for the exploitation of na tu ral resources. The share of foreign capital per- mitted ranges f rom 30 per cent to 49 per cent in the case of jo int ventures, and up to 100 per cent in enter- prises specializing in production for exports. There are guarantees of repatriation of profits and of proper com- pensation in the event of nationalization. Gold The State Bank alone has authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1977 March 29. The bilateral payments agreement w i th Egypt was terminated. April 18. The new Foreign Investment Law was approved. May. Viet Nam became a member of the In terna- tional Bank for Economic Cooperation and the Inter- na t ional Investment Bank. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Western Samoa Tala has been established with the Fund. A central rate of WS$1 = US$1.67736 was established in 1973. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, and Western Samoa avails itself of wider margins. The external value of the tala is determined daily on the basis of the basket of cur- rencies used by New Zealand. Since December 20, 1976 the rate for the New Zealand dollar has been WS$0.76 = $NZ 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of their rates against the New Zea- land dollar. On August 25, 1977 the Government intro- duced an exchange profit levy of 1 per cent on gross sales of foreign exchange. Subsequently, spreads between buying and selling rates for all traded currencies ex- ceeded 2 per cent. On December 31, 1977 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were WS$0.7379 and WS$0.7600, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control The overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the authority for the daily administration of the exchange controls and the exchange allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his authority to the Financial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry, however, has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —author- ity to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from all sources for reasons of security or health. Other com- modities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual alloca- tion of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a semiannual basis, which may be used freely for the import of any 452 commodity that is not prohibited, except automobiles.1 The allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the authorized banks which auto- matically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documentary evi- dence. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a downpayment of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the authorized banks up to any amount or within limits determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for all other invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Remittances for study abroad are freely authorized. The Ministry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pensions, rents, interests, and divi- dends by persons permanently resident overseas. Resi- dents traveling to American Samoa, whether for busi- ness or private purposes, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$200 a person a quarter; an additional allowance of US$50 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allow- ance for other countries is equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations when evidence of genuine need is provided. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board, cocoa exports by the Cocoa Board, and banana exports by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 per cent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within a reasonable time after ship- 1 Rice, flour, sugar, milk products, canned fish, mutton flaps, and spare parts for engines may be imported freely outside the allocation system. During 1977 imports of automobiles, except those by the Government and by nonresidents using their own foreign exchange holdings, were limited to 15 a month. 8 The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment. Where exceptional circumstances exist, the Minis- try of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but bor- rowing abroad by nonbank residents does require ap- proval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to rela- tives and dependents, either for special fam i ly occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each family group. Foreign investments in specified activities WESTERN SAMOA in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1977 August 22. The Pacific Commercial Bank commenced operations and was granted authorized dealer status. August 25. An export levy of 7 per cent on the f.o.b. value of cocoa and copra exports was introduced. The export levy on cocoa would be activated at WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. August 25. An exchange profit levy of 1 per cent was introduced on gross sales of all foreign exchange by banks. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established. All trans- actions take place in a free market at an exchange rate which in principle is a fluctuating one but since Febru- ary 1973 has remained unchanged. On December 31, 1977, the rate for the U.S. dollar was YR1 1 = US$0.22. Exchange rates for other currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of London cross rates against the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Supply and Trade grants licenses for imports and exports. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. The only commer- cial banks which deal in foreign exchange are the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development and branches of seven foreign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.1 Settlements are usually made in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of petro- leum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. All other imports require licenses, which, generally, are issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of certain government agencies. The importation of certain textiles requires the approval of the Sanaa Textile Factory. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the neces- sary fore ign exchange f rom the local banks or the free market. A m in imum ma rg in deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for imports of foods tu f fs (o ther than canned f r u i t s ), construction materials, indus t r ial and agricultural inpu ts, medicines, and medical equipment. The rates of margin deposits applicable to imports of other products are between 30 per cent and 100 per cent. The au thor i ty to determine individual ratios is delegated to the commercial banks. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are 1 There is a bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt which is inoperative. subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports require registration forms, which are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, except that the commercial banks are required to obtain the approval of the Central Bank before contracting foreign loans or providing guarantees against foreign credits extended to residents and non- residents. Domestic and foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 18 of 1975. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits af ter taxes or of their capital. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1977 January 26. The commercial banks were required to obtain the approval of the Central Bank before contract- ing foreign loans or providing guarantees against foreign credits extended to residents and nonresidents. February 6. The rates of margin deposits against let- ters of credit opened for imports of products other than foods tuffs (except canned f r u i t s ), construction mate- rials, industrial and agricultural inputs, medicines, and medical equipment were raised to 30-100 per cent. The authority to determine the ratio within this range was delegated to the commercial banks. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is issued by the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) and is defined as equiva- lent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value for the Yemeni dinar has been established with the Fund. Since February 1973, the central rate has been YD 1 = US$2.89523 or US$1 = YD 0.345395. On Decem- ber 31, 1977, the National Bank of Yemen's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, per US$1. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Yemen's General Department for Exchange Control through the Foreign Exchange Com- mittee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of the Com- mittee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Director of Exchange Control); at present the only commercial bank and authorized dealer is the National Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports ( inc lud ing those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public cor- porations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). The oil refinery, which was transferred to government ownership in May 1977, is treated as a resident entity. Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers in accordance with prescription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the United King- dom. All payments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currencies l and surren- dered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held by certain persons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Yemen. External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency transferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances f rom other External Accounts. Transfers f rom abroad must be in the form of bank d ra f ts; the accounts cannot be credited with pay- ments in the form of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en t ry ), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any pay- ments to residents, for transfers to other External Ac- counts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from Nonresident Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, all imports other than those of the oil refinery require ind iv idual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt f rom the licensing requirements. Imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. An import program is drawn up annually. In addition, importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers w i thout the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The Na t ional Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. The Na t ional Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government requ i remen ts, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports f rom the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of trans- actions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The basic exchange 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN allowance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten ) .2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the applica- tion. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes); other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not per- mitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Furthermore, nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are exempt from licenses. All exports to Israel and Rho- desia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Com- mittee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) when due and surrendered to authorized dealers. However, Yemeni nationals working abroad are allowed to establish non- resident foreign currency accounts. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf states. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YR ls 1,000 in Yemen rials. departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Promotion of Industrial Investment may be granted exemptions from import duty and vari- ous other tax facilities. All remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit in any one year. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value, or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numis- matic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 to las3 in weight, subject to registration in passports. Arriving nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 10 tolas duty free and up to 20 tolas after paying import duty at a rate of 30 per cent. Imports of bullion and specie must be sold to the National Bank of Yemen. Changes during 1977 January 1. Tourists were required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay was less than one month. May 1. Ownership of the oil refinery at Aden was transferred to the Government. 3 One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0433330 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar. Since July 12, 1973 the au tho r i t ies have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the d in ar within announced marg ins and the re fo re all t ransac t ions, except for receipts and paymen ts effected under the pro- cedures set fo r th for certain countries w i th wh ich Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange ma rket in Belgrade on December 31, 1977 were Din 18.4175 and Din 18.4729, respectively, per US$1. The currenc ies dealt in are Aus t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Bel- gian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, F inn ish m a rkk a a, French f rancs, Iraqi d ina rs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti d inars, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade establishes rules and regu la t ions, makes decisions gov- e rn ing commercial t ransac t ions, and issues impo rt and export licenses when requ ired. It is also charged w i th securing balanced trade w i th paymen ts agreement coun- tries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange t ransac t ions. This Secretariat and the Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange controls. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and f rom fore ign countries; it also licenses compensation transac t ions. All fore ign exchange transactions must be carried out through the Na t ional Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a m in imum credit f u nd of Din 500 million and deposits of at least Din 1,000 m i l l ion, may engage in all foreign exchange transac t ions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( in c lud ing the gran t ing of gua ran tees ). Limited au thor ized banks, which must have a m i n im um credit f u nd amoun t ing to Din 100 million and deposits of at least Din 200 m i l l ion, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep fore ign exchange accoun ts abroad nor engage in fore ign credit operations, except through the intermediation of a fu l ly authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices may only deal in fo r- eign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks, hotels, and spe- cifically authorized tourist agencies. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both produc ing and t rad ing unde r tak ing s) registered for this purpose. Reg is tra t ion is effected automatically, provided that certain condi- tions, inc lud ing the provision of m in imum work ing capital for trade enterprises, are fu l f i l led. Economic organ iza t ions that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organiza- tions wh ich export and /or import on the ir own behalf. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and from countries w i th which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is u sua l ly made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has paymen ts agreements requ ir ing settlements through bilateral accounts as fo l lows: (1) in U.S. dollars w i th A lban ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) in pounds sterling with Viet Nam. Certain settlements with Bang- ladesh, Colombia, Ghana, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may ma in ta in accounts denom ina ted in foreign exchange and in d inars in Yugoslavia according to the fo l low ing rules. For- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in d ina rs with f u l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia. Foreign missions and fore igners resident in Yugoslavia may free ly open w i th any authorized bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.1 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in d inars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; ou twa rd transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the account-holding bank being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign jur id i- cal and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Bal- ances may be used only for d inar payments in Yugo- slavia or for re transfer to the bilateral coun try to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars w i th authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely 1 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA with amounts whose t rans fer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for per- mitted payments in Yugoslavia and for t rans fer abroad in the convertible currency of the account holder's country of domicile. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts w i th authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited w i th dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, non transferab le and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immed ia te family, or by the owner and staff of fore ign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive f rom copyright royalties or f rom work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, f r om pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated f rom Yugoslavia, or f rom alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accordance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the currency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid in the foreign currency deposited. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate fam i ly; balances are not transferab le to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, be low ). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants return- ing to Yugoslavia may also open fore ign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of the currencies of certain Eastern European countries 2 and Mongolia, the accounts are denominated in dollars and for Viet Nam in pounds sterling; for other bilateral cur- rencies the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for d inar pay- ments in Yugoslavia or for re transfers to the bilateral partner country. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as par t ic ipa t ing in foreign trade. In addition to economic organizations specializ- ing in foreign trade, most ma jor indus tr ial producers are registered. The import of cer ta in basic foods tu f fs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. 2 Albania, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. 458 For most commodities import licenses are not re- quired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in four categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB —liberalized goods; GDK—goods im- ported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK— goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d i n a r s ); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but they also include some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quan t i ta t ive restriction. Exchange for payments for LB imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods f rom payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The GDK list comprises raw materials, other repro- duction materials, most capital equipment, and most of those consumer goods not liberalized under the LB regime. Such imports can be effected under several dif- ferent procedures. For nonconsumer goods each im- porter of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed f rom specific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed f rom retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, inc lud ing suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allo- cations are limited mainly to large investment projects, inc lud ing public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. Economic organizations may acquire foreign exchange at a predetermined proportion of their annual depreciation allowance, a ratio that varies from 10 to 100 per cent according to the eco- nomic sector involved. For consumer goods, trading enterprises agree within the Chamber of Economy on the distribution of GDK quotas among themselves; if the enterprises are unable to agree among themselves on a GDK allocation, the Federal Secretariat for Market and Prices will allocate this quota among them. A part of the GDK quotas is reserved for imports f rom speci- fied developing countries. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), ma in ly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also machine tools and certain plastics, are subject to quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities ( RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports f rom convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.3 Additional quotas may be allocated dur ing the year if the enterprise to which the quota is allocated under takes to increase exports. Exchange is provided au toma t ica l ly for payments for imports of goods subject to the RK and DK regime, but only up to a predetermined quan t i ty or amount for each item. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammun i t ion, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, railway rolling stock, aircraft, na tural gas, and bitumen. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. These licenses automatically entitle an enterprise to purchase the requisite foreign exchange. For certain goods there is an add i t ional requ iremen t, irrespective of those set out above, of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1977 these goods were 65 LB items, 5 RK items, 2 DK items, and 1 D item. The items include a wide range of tropical foods tu f fs and fru i ts, raw materials, cocoa butter, fa ts and oils, raw cotton, textiles, and t in, and the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation f rom the coun try of origin. Private persons who are Yugoslav na t iona ls and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Self- employed Yugoslav nationals may freely and at any time import machinery for small fa rms or equipment for hand icraft production, up to Din 80,000 a shipment. Also, Yugoslavs re turn ing f rom work abroad and non- residents residing in Yugoslavia for more than three months may import goods up to Din 80,000 for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided such goods were paid for f rom the savings f rom their foreign earnings; such savings may be held abroad or in fore ign exchange accounts w i th Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of fore ign exchange accounts and Yugoslav na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that importation is effected through a registered enter- prise and payment is made through a fore ign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign 3 In principle, any such allocation among impor ters must be agreed on among economic organizations within the Chamber of Economy on the basis of resources and requirements taking in to account projected growth rates and the proportions of the balance of paymen ts. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the d is t r ibu- tion. The import of coffee is contingent upon Yugoslav expo r ts to the supplying country. YUGOSLAVIA nationals are exempt f rom this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they re turn for per- manent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is in- herited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemn i ty received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens re tu rn ing f rom a tourist t r ip abroad may import goods intended for their household. How- ever, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 5,000, these goods are usually handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic fo rwa rder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation trans- actions are authorized only in certain cases. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 6 per cent tax equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt f rom customs duty. In addi- tion, an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for all dutiable com- modities, with the exception that the surcharge is levied at a reduced rate of 7-9 per cent for capital equipment for the development of basic pr imary product industries, for some reproduction materials, and for certain essen- tial items such as hides. Many agr icu l tural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transpor ta t ion, are fu l ly liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made free ly available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferab le under certain conditions. Pay- men ts in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia ma in- ta ins bilateral payments arrangements, then such pay- ments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done on a reciprocal basis. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of Din 1,000 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The Na t ional Bank may authorize the sale of any amount of foreign exchange for the foregoing and for unspecified purposes when justified in light of the circumstances. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international fre ight and passenger t ranspo r ta t ion are liberalized. There is no basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, travel agencies may sell orga- nized tours abroad against payment in d inars up to an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of their ind iv idual 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA retention quotas. The Na t ional Bank may also au thor ize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel abroad. Payments for other inv is i- bles may be made from the remitter's own fo re ign exchange funds (e.g., f rom retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical o rgan iza t ions, from specific annual allocations). Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic currency, in denom ina t ions of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in for- eign exchange w i thout declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain livestock) and- certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narco t ic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("accord- ance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approva l). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import f rom such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds f rom exports must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The sur- render of these proceeds is not required. The f u ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter ma in ta ins w i th an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles, or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that rema ins at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the rema inder may be retained indefinitely or used for certain paymen ts abroad, but cannot earn interest. The permitted reten- tion rate is 20 per cent for all export earnings f rom goods and services, with the exception that a rate of 45 per cent applies to tourist organizations and a rate of 100 per cent applies to foreign exchange earnings of Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad and to Yugoslav enterprises operating under long-term cooperation agree- ments with foreign companies. (Enterprises with long- term cooperation agreements may in any case import up to the value of their production which is a result of that cooperation.) In some instances (services rendered to 460 fore ign tourists and sales of newly m ined go ld ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Producing enterprises selling specified consumer goods in Yugoslavia for fore ign cur- rency may re ta in 20 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days f rom the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering serv- ices in paymen ts agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for For- eign Trade. Receipts f rom services are eligible for reten- t ion quotas; the quota for hotels and tourist agencies is 45 per cent. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the eco- nomic organization concerned, inc lud ing paymen ts for purchases of equipment and other ma te r ial for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferab le to economic organizations other than those w i th which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business ma t- ters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, wh i le employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of his imme- diate f am i ly; they are not t rans fe rab le to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indef in i te period of time. Authorized trade organizations may sell manufac tured goods to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia against payment in foreign exchange at a discount freely established by the trade organizations themselves. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fu l ly authorized banks and economic organizations, except that consumer goods may not be imported on deferred payment terms and that there is no provision for foreign financial credits whose repayment terms include a grace period of less than two years.4 All other 4 When enterprises issue bonds abroad, they may use 80 per cent of the fore ign exchange proceeds for the import of equ ipment and spare par ts for their own needs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inward or outward transfers of a capital na ture by resi- dents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded w i th the National Banks of the republics. Loans must ordinarily be repaid with foreign exchange that is either obtained by the economic organization concerned as export reten- tion quotas and foreign exchange amortization (depre- ciation) allocations or acquired f rom banks according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime. Credits in the former category are subject to prior dinar deposit requirements; the deposits are noninterest bearing and are held with the National Banks of the republics until full repayment of the foreign credits. For financial credits and foreign exchange deposits received by business banks for the account of nonresi- dents, the five basic rates of deposit introduced in April 1972 range from 1 per cent for maturities over ten years to 40 per cent for maturities of less than two years. However, as a temporary measure beginning in mid- December 1972, a dinar deposit of 75 per cent was required for all financial credits and foreign exchange deposits by nonresidents, regardless of maturity. For credits for the importation of capital goods, the deposit rates at the end of 1977 were 20 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years; 10 per cent for credits of between three and five years; and 1 per cent for credits with a maturity of over five years. However, if the capital goods were imported for investments in underdeveloped regions of Yugoslavia, the deposit rates were 10 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years and 1 per cent for credits with a longer maturity and also for all credits for the import of specially produced capital equipment. Certain foreign credits are specifically exempted f rom the foregoing deposit requirements; these include credits f rom specified international financial organizations, credits contracted for or on behalf of the Federal Gov- ernment or the National Bank, and credits contracted for the importation of equipment intended for high- priority sectors and activities as defined by Decisions of the Federal Executive Council. Foreign credits repayable with foreign exchange acquired according to the regulations governing the for- eign trade regime are trade credits for raw materials and intermediate goods, usually with a ma tur i ty of up to 360 days. These are exempt from deposit require- ments. As an exception, if the goods imported on credit are under the LB regime, 25 per cent must normally be deposited with the National Banks of the republics or the autonomous provinces as a downpayment and the remaining 75 per cent is payable at maturity. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organi- zations but only through jo int ventures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers abroad may be financed f rom the retention quota and, in addition, profit transfers are permitted up to one third of the joint venture's foreign YUGOSLAVIA currency earnings from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation would be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days; however, when repatriated the profits are governed by the regulations for retention quotas. Residents are obliged to repatriate and, with the exception of inherit- ances, to surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Outward capital transfers by residents who are physical persons are not approved. Economic organizations wish- ing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Also, a Decision of the Federal Executive Council requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold The National Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration and, for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the National Bank or to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the rate of Din 17 per U.S. dollar to a price of US$42.22 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota of 20 per cent in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quota- tion in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Changes during 1977 January 1. The decree governing foreign exchange proceeds du r ing the performance of inves tment work abroad was amended to allow receipts to be held in banks abroad under some circumstances. January L The decision on special foreign exchange quotas for imports of equipment paid for f rom the Federal Fund for Crediting the Accelerated Develop- ment of the Economically In su f f ic ien t ly Developed Republics and Au tonomous Provinces in 1974 and 1975 was extended f rom December 3 1 , 1 9 76 to December 31, 1977. January 1. The import surcharge was extended to December 31. January 1. The tax equalization charge on imports was raised f rom 5 per cent to 6 per cent. January 1. Imports of 3.48 m i l l ion tons of crude oil effected in the second half of 1976 were freed f r om ta r i f fs and other import charges. January 13. Regulations were published concerning the establishment and operation of representative offices of fore ign companies in Yugoslavia. January 15. The decision to reduce to 5 per cent the tar iffs on the import of specific equ ipment for a number of sectors of the economy was extended to the end of 1977. February 19. The decision imposing a deposit re- qu i rement on imports of equ ipment on credit expired. February 26. The reduced rate of import surcharge of 9 per cent was abolished. March 1. New laws on foreign exchange t ransac t ions and credit relations w i th foreign countries, on trade in goods and services w i th fore ign countries, and on the performance of economic activities w i th fo re ign coun- tries came into force, although many of the provisions would take effect only at the beg inn ing of 1978. March 12. Imports of certain specific equ ipment used for env ironmen tal protection, ferronickel m in ing and production, chemical fertilizer production, pipeline con- struction, oil and na tu ral gas extraction, phosphoric acid production, and su l fu r ic acid production were made subject to reduced rates of du ty un t il the end of 1977. March 25. The decision on the Regu la t ion of Credit Transactions w i th Foreign Countries was amended to the effect that the relevant authorities would not register credit transactions if the agreement contained clauses that empowered the creditor unilaterally to suspend the agreement and demand repayment before ma tu r i ty, on account of amendments or changes in laws or regula- tions not ascribable to the action of the debtor. May 6. A global exchange quota was fixed for pu r- chases of consumer goods exhibited at international fa irs in 1977 amoun t ing to Din 34 million, including at least Din 10 million for imports f rom developing coun- tries. 462 May 20. Imports of 8.61 million tons of crude oil in the second half of 1977 were exempted f rom payment of duty and other import charges. May 20. Regulations were published s t ipu la t ing the conditions under which residents might import motor vehicles. June 17. The reductions in du ty on raw materials, other producers' goods and components applied in 1976 were extended to the end of 1977. June 24. Imports of sugar beet were moved f rom the LB category to the D list un t il the end of 1977. June 24. The reduction of du ty on cer ta in imports for the production of basic agricultural products was extended to include cen t r i fugal pumps and certain mach inery. June 24. Regulations were published concerning the conditions under which expend i tures and other business costs abroad of representative offices and of representa- tives might be incurred and paid. The new regulations would take effect on Janua ry 1, 1978. June 24. Regu la t ions were published concerning col- lection of premiums and payment of indemn i t ies and other payments in foreign exchange arising out of insu rance and reinsurance transactions. The new regula- tions would be applied beg inn ing Janua ry 1, 1978. June 24. Regulations were published concerning the conditions under which individuals and civil legal persons might pay in dinars for certain services rendered to them abroad. The regulations wou ld take effect on J a n u a ry 1, 1978. June 24. Regulations were published on the use of foreign exchange held by ind iv idua ls and civil legal persons in foreign exchange accounts or fore ign ex- change savings accounts. The regulations would take effect on J anu a ry 1, 1978. June 24. Regulations were published on the condi- tions governing the acquisition and use of dinars by foreign persons. The regulations would take effect on J anu a ry 1, 1978. July 1. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Greece was terminated. From J anu a ry 1, 1978, all transactions would be effected on a convertible currency basis. July 1. Regulations were published concerning the holding of foreign exchange realized abroad by business, banking, and other organizations referred to in Arti- cle 79 of the Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions and Credit Relations with Foreign Countries. The regulation would take effect on Janua ry 1, 1978. July 22. Regulations were published on conditions and procedures for the use of fore ign exchange by ind iv idua ls and civil legal persons to purchase certain securities issued in Yugoslavia. The regu la t ion would take effect on J anu a ry 1, 1978. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA July 22. Regulations were published concerning con- ditions under which organizations of associated labor might net foreign payables against receivables and might hold foreign exchange abroad. The regulation would take effect on January 1, 1978. July 29. Regulations were published on exports and imports of dinars in international passenger transpor- tation as well as imports and exports of commemorative gold coins. A limit was fixed of Din 1,500 a person in denominations of Din 100 or less. July 29. Regulations were published stating the con- ditions under which banks might accept deposits of funds by foreign legal and natural persons. The regula- tions would take effect on January 1, 1978. October 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Brazil was terminated and a new agreement was signed providing for settlements in convertible currency. December 16. Regulations were published concerning the granting of licenses for export and import of goods in 1978. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Za'ire. A central rate of Z 1 = SDR 1 has been established, and Zaire avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Za ire (the central bank) determines the exchange rates be- tween the zaire and other currencies on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the SDR rate. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Zai're, by virtue of its charter, has regu- latory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to author- ize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to permit the import, export, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zai're.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. However, certain settlements w i th Burund i, Rwanda, and Uganda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zai're with the central banks of the countries concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zai'res, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zai'res. Nonresident Accounts in Zai'res may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zai're. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and in terna t ional organizations established in Zai're, may be debited freely but may be credited only w i th the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zai'res maintained by residents or to Nonresident Foreign Currency Ac- counts, for sales of foreign currency, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authorization f rom the Bank of Zai're to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 464 Convertible Accounts in Zai'res may be credited with amounts converted from foreign currency at the official rate, transfers f rom another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized payments by residents to nonresi- dents and may be debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any payments in domestic cur- rency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammunition, narcotics, and jukeboxes. The importation of specified luxury items (including certain automobiles, jewelry, and fu rn i tu re) is prohibited for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than certain priority items (mainly foodstuffs, Pharmaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial spare pa r t s ), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zai're for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is prohibited for protective reasons, while import licenses for other items produced do- mestically, but in insufficient quantities, are issued spar- ingly. For most goods subject to license the importer must obtain a credit of at least 180 days af ter shipment, while for specified priority items the importer must obtain a credit of at least 90 days. Imports paid for aga inst resident foreign currency accounts held by exporters are also subject to these requirements. Those imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zaire are subject to import declarations, which do not require the approval of the Bank. The Bank issues a general import and payments license for such goods which guarantees the availability of foreign exchange2 when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declaration with his bank following the actual placing of the order and provided that the invoice price and qua l i ty have been verified and found acceptable by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zairois de Controle. Such verification is also required for all other imports. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made out at authorized banks, which, after certification, forward the applications to the Bank of Zai're for approval. The import license application is then returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for six months. Foreign exchange is, in principle, made avail- able for all licensed imports, the validated license con- stituting at the same time an exchange license. The licenses may be extended beyond the term of six months, for a fu r ther six-month period. 2 This guarantee has been suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports effected under bilateral arrangements between Zaire and certain countries (Belgium, the Federal Re- public of Germany, and the United States) are governed by separate, specific provisions. Imports in general are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem and some are also subject to a tu rn- over tax of 9 per cent. In add i t ion, most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to a temporary import surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Certain import payments have been delayed. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formu la ted by the Bank of Zai're. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire; the approval author- ity for other current payments has been delegated to the authorized banks. The Bank of Zai're will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers, or purchasing agents, or for insurance on imports except for imports payable on arrival, and pro- vided that the supplier has arranged the insurance. Im- ports and exports between Zai're and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West A f r ica Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice, and, in the case of exports, banks are not authorized to validate export declarations unless these are marked accordingly. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign cur- rency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon arrival. Mar i t ime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zairoise. All other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the transfer abroad of salaries of foreign nationals is subject to limits. Transfers pertaining to certain ad- ministrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation have been suspended except where the transfer of such profits is expressly guaranteed by the Investment Code. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the dura- tion of the journey, up to the equivalent in zaires of BF 30,000 a trip for no more than four trips a year. The export of domestic banknotes and coins is pro- hibited. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign means of payment declared upon entry. Certain current payments have been delayed. ZAIRE Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general license require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations, in which exporters under- take to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be ex- ported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. However, exporters may, upon receiving authorization from the Bank of Zaire, retain up to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts opened with the authorized banks for this purpose; such accounts may be debited only for payments for merchandise imported for use in the export activity. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et Mines du Zaire (GECAM INE S ), which is marketed ex- clusively by the Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniere (SOZACOM). On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAM INES with a pro- visional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimated value, and with the balance of the proceeds upon execu- tion of the sales contract. GECAMINES is allowed to retain up to 45 per cent of its export proceeds w i th banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds to the Bank of Zaire. For diamond exports, two th i rds of the value established at a preliminary exam ina t ion in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dis- patched. Export proceeds from coffee must be sur- rendered within 45 days after shipment, which must take place within a period of three months f rom the signing of the sales contract. Receipts f rom other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated w i th in three months of validation. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. All exports are subject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad valorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. The import of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred during their stay in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guaran- teed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE permitted. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by departmental ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not per- mitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the Bank of Zai're. Producers are not required to sell their production to the Bank. All newly produced gold is exported, with the exception of small quantities used domestically for the manufacture of jewelry. Changes during 1977 January 25. It was announced that all export declara- tions for exports of coffee should be submitted for the prior approval (visa) of the Bank of Zaire, along with a sales contract concluded in accordance with the reference price (mercuriale) currently in force. It was specified that the export declaration must be submitted within 15 days of the date of conclusion of the sales contract at the reference price applicable on that date, irrespective of whether the reference price had sub- sequently been adjusted (Letter No. 338). February 2. Imports of nonessential products and of luxury articles were permitted for resale under the regime applicable to imports not involving the purchase of foreign exchange (sans achat de devises—SAD) (Letter No. 347). February 10. The maximum outstanding amount of irrevocable and confirmed documentary import credits that banks could open for each exporting firm was limited to 10 per cent of the foreign exchange repatriated by the firm (Letter No. 8296). February 11. Banks were authorized to open resident accounts denominated in foreign exchange in favor of exporters, subject to prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. Exporters became entitled to retain 10 per cent of their export proceeds, and only payments for mer- chandise imported for use in the export activity could be charged against these accounts (Circular No. 153). March 16. A specific tax on coffee exports of Z0.65 a kilogram was introduced (Law No. 77-006). March 18. The following modifications in the trade and payments regime were announced, effective March 28: (1) Coffee exports. All persons and firms registered at the Bank of Zaire were authorized to export coffee subject to the approval of the Executive Council; other- wise, the provisions relating to coffee exports (in Letter No. 338 of January 25) remained unchanged. (2) Priority imports. A detailed list of imports not subject to import licenses was published, comprising food products, essen- 466 tial consumer goods, Pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermediate products for manufacturing, and industrial spare parts. ( 3) It was announced that for other imports still subject to prior authorization, the Bank of Zaire would accept applications for licenses only on Tuesdays and Thursdays of each week. (4) Protection. For another group of items produced domestically, the Bank of Zaire would periodically submit to authorized banks a list of products that were available in sufficient quantity domestically; imports of such items would be subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire even if these items were included in the list of priority imports. ( 5) Banks were required to certify each month to the Bank of Zai're that goods authorized under import declarations had in fact cleared customs. (6) The prior import deposit requirements of 50 per cent and 80 per cent, introduced on May 12, 1976, were abolished. (7) Arrears. As part of a program of centralization of ex- ternal payments arrears, banks were required to transfer to the Bank of Zai're all commercial arrears relating to import payments outstanding on February 28. Com- mercial arrears for which the importer had not deposited the zai're equivalent by March 1 were not covered by this measure. Except with the written permission of the Bank of Zaire, banks were prohibited from opening documentary credits for imports against import declara- tions or licenses lodged with the banks prior to March 26 and not yet processed (Letter No. 8402). April 6. Commercial banks were required to sur- render to the Bank of Zaire 11 per cent of foreign ex- change proceeds derived from the export of coffee since January 1. Thus, commercial banks could henceforth retain 79 per cent of coffee export proceeds in foreign exchange and 90 per cent of foreign exchange proceeds f rom other exports, except those accruing to GECAMINES, to which special provisions continued to apply (Letter No. 8426). April 6. Certain aspects of the instructions to banks on foreign payments (Letter No. 8402 of March 18) were clarified. (1) It was announced that overdue pay- ments for invisibles and payments orders for imports of certain large firms, including subsidiaries of foreign companies, against which the clients had not deposited the local currency equivalent, would not be covered by the centralization of payments arrears. (2) Bank of Zaire payment guarantees would henceforth be extended only for the list of priority imports. Moreover, only the Bank of Zaire itself would extend such guarantees for import declarations registered by the commercial banks (Letter No. 8425). May 25. Imports of ready-made men's shirts, socks, and trousers, and certain synthetic textiles were pro- hibited for protective reasons. June 25. Imports of crude petroleum destined for the national refinery, Sozm, were removed from the list of items requiring prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE July 5. The instructions contained in Letter No. 8402 of March 18 were fur ther clarified in that textile imports, not covered by the provisions relating to protection of national industry, nonetheless required the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. July 11. It was announced that reference prices (mercuriales) for coffee exports would henceforth be used for indicative purposes only, and banks were authorized to accept export declarations relating to coffee exports if the contractual price was not more than 15 per cent below the reference price currently in effect (Letter No. 8604). September 15. The specific tax on coffee exports intro- duced on March 16 was replaced by an ad valorem tax applied on the f.o.b. price of coffee exports. For f.o.b. prices of between Z 2.50 and Z 2.99 a kilogram, the new tax rate was 5 per cent ad valorem; for prices between Z3.00 and Z3 .49 a kilogram, 10 per cent; for prices between Z3.50 and Z3.99 a kilogram, 20 per cent; for prices between Z4.00 and Z4.99 a kilogram, 30 per cent; and for prices of Z5.00 a kilogram and above, 40 per cent (Law No. 77-024). September 16. The number of requests Zairian na- tionals traveling abroad could make for purchasing fore ign exchange was limited to four a year; the maxi- mum foreign exchange allocation for trips abroad re- mained unchanged at the equivalent of BF 30,000 a trip. It was also announced that henceforth expatriates going abroad for medical treatment would not be authorized to transfer funds abroad for such treatment without a medical certificate obtained in Zai're and other rele- vant documentation. Applications for transfers of such medical expenses incurred abroad would be authorized in March and September of each year (Letter No. 8821). 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 57, 1977) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha. Since Ju ly 9, 1976 the central rate for the kwacha has been maintained in terms of the SDR at a rate of K 1 = SDR 1.08479,1 and Zambia continues to avail itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks normally in U.S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other cur- rencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in the international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 per cent for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.50 per cent for sales. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in tu rn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce, who also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is made by a committee on which the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments f rom residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency f rom an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. Special regu- lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account earmarked Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars. Proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are 1W i th e f fect f rom March 1, 1978, the exchange ra te for the kwacha was changed to K 1 = SDR 0.976311. 468 designated External Accounts.2 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any pur- pose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange con- trol authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited every year for the permitted anniversary allowance for remittances to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferab le to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which also is blocked. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of certain specified com- modities for health, safety, or moral reasons. Personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The two major mining companies and the Ministry of Health are granted priority for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emer- gency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require indi- vidual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a ha l f -yea r ly exchange allocation3 established by the Ministry of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. All imports under ind iv idual licensing are first divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Clas- sification system (SITC) and fu r ther subdivided into end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified 2 Au tho r ized banks are requ ired to obtain prior permission of the exchange control au thor i t ies before designating any new Ex ternal Account except where the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. 3 U n t il J u ne 30, 1977 impo rt licenses were issued on a qu a r t e r ly basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for each of these categories. Normally, raw materials, intermediate goods for fur ther processing in Zambia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restric- tively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank. Prior approval by the Bank of Zambia, however, is necessary for payments to South Africa in excess of K 20,000; imports from Rho- desia and South Africa are not normally permitted unless no alternative source of supply is available. Most imported goods are subject upon customs clear- ance to sales tax, at a rate of 25 per cent, calculated on the sum of 120 per cent of the customs value plus the applicable import duty. Certain import payments are in arrears. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as business travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authori- ties, except when payments and transfers in excess of K 20,000 to South Africa are involved. Transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited except in respect of pensions due to residents in that country and school fees of chil- dren whose parents are resident in Zambia. Authorized dealers are not permitted to make foreign exchange available for travel to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows: The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 50 a day for up to 15 days a person a calendar year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as edu- cation and medical treatment. Applications for amoun ts exceeding the limits may in certain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional trea tment is jus t i f ied. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 300 an adult for each calendar year. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, managemen t, accounting, adm in is tra t ive, engineering, and consulting services ren- dered to residents by nonresidents are subject to ind i- v idual approval by the Bank of Zamb ia, which gene ra l ly grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing con- tracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.4 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are s i tua ted outside Zambia may be t ran s fe r red abroad up to 15 per cent of the nonres ident share of the equ i ty cap i tal or * Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. ZAMBIA 50 per cent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller.5 Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 per cent of their after-tax profits. A fu r ther 10 per cent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year a f ter the end of the accounting year. The rem i t tance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract made after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings to the country nomi- nated when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971 and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date are allowed to remit to their coun try of domicile one half of their annual earn- ings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; their leave salary, gratuity, and other terminal benefits are trans- ferable only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure and K 5,000 as a subsequent annual allowance. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for fam i ly maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zamb ian currency. Certain current payments are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license excepting those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agreements with the m in ing companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marke t ing Corporation. Exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limi- ta t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes that may 3 An aud i to r 's c e r t i f i c a te mu st be subm i t ted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations a f ter fu ll provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a max imum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but, with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt- equity ratio of 1 to 2.6 However, the Bank of Zamb ia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to t rans fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repa- triated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a fam i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a fam i ly unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigra- tion allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compen- sation payments, and terminal benefits up to a max imum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus- 0 This was changed to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3 in accordance with A.D. Circular No. 6/78. 470 trial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided w i th the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1977 January 31. The instruction issued on July 26, 1976 that authorized dealers must apply to the exchange con- trol authorities for prior approval to open letters of credit was withdrawn. February 1. The restriction introduced on Septem- ber 16, 1975 prohibiting the issue of foreign currency for tourism was withdrawn, and residents were allowed allocations of foreign currency up to the equivalent of K 300 per adult per annum; there was no provision for a travel allowance for children. February 1. The restrictions, imposed in 1975, on purchases of foreign currency notes and travelers checks from travelers by hotels and travel agents were withdrawn. March 28. The restriction, issued in July 1975, ban- ning the remittance of rentals to nonresidents who own property in Zambia was lifted. Provided tax had been paid, remittance of 50 per cent of the rentals received was permitted. April 1. The limit on annual transfers abroad by expatriate farmers was raised from 10 per cent to 12.5 per cent of their audited net profits after tax. In addi- tion, 10 per cent of the audited net profits after tax could be held to their credit every year and the entire accumulated sum would be remitted on emigration from Zambia together with other allowances enjoyed by emi- grants. This concession was limited to expatriate (non- Zamb ian) farmers and only profits derived from their fa rm ing activities would be covered by this arrangement. April 18. The authority delegated to authorized deal- ers to allow remittances up to K 20 a person a year as a gift or for maintenance purposes was withdrawn. May 16. Authorized dealers were prohibited from remitting proceeds of usance import bills before the ma tu r i ty dates. May 16. Authorized dealers were advised that the leave salary of foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract basis would be transferable only on comple- tion of the contract along with terminal benefits, subject to overall ceilings of K 8,000 on departure and K 5,000 as a subsequent annual allowance. May 17. The authorities withdrew the facility granted in September 1976 to foreign-controlled firms and com- panies operating in Zambia to invest unremittable profits or dividends in government stocks of not less than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA two years on the understanding that the principal plus interest on maturity would become remittable. May 20. Authorized dealers were prohibited from making any remittances to or entering into any transac- tion with persons, firms, or banks in Rhodesia. June 24. Authorized dealers were permitted to make remittances to Rhodesia in respect of pensions due to residents in that country and of school fees of children whose parents were resident in Zambia. June 27. Travel agents and airline companies were prohibited from selling tickets for round-the-world trips without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. June 30. It was announced that remittance of profits and dividends would be allowed up to either 15 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity (instead of 30 per cent) or 50 per cent of the profits, whichever was smaller. July 8. The requirement that all export proceeds should be received through irrevocable letters of credit was withdrawn. September 22. Authorized dealers were empowered to provide travel allowance of up to K 70 a child to school children attending full-time courses outside Zambia, except in Rhodesia. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins3 in terms of: («) U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French franc (cf) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (a)-(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions4-6 11. Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 1 5. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or U.K. Scheduled Territories 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation8 A f n a h g i s t n a 7 - - - <a I < - 14_> < A A u s r t a i l a - A u s i r t a - B a h a m s a B h a r a i n - B g n a l s e d a h | - B a r o d a b s | - B e l g i u m - L e x u m u o b r g - ^c 1 - B o i l v i a B o t s w a n a r~ 13 2« A •7 I D - B u r d n u i d - C a d a n a C n e r t a l A i r f n a c E m p r i e - • 3 6 £ A ~ C h i a n , R b u p e i l c o f - C o o l m b i a | A . C o m o r o s - - % 1! fa - .§ *i - — — For key and footnotes, see page 476. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • — • • — • • • • • • • • — — • — • • • • — — • — — • • — Appendix Countries9 Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 (J u - - - D o m i n a c n i R b u p e i l c - - V* O 1 rri . D, % * . B l S o d a v a l r . E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n | - 1 1 . - - - • a 1 £ - F r e c n a - - 1ctfn - - r h e G a m b i a | - d I f - - 1 O - n n . - G a u t e m a l a - G u i a e n D G u i a e n - B i u a s s c03 n - - •3 - H u d n o r s a - H g n o K g n o - - • oc - ctf 1 [ s e n o d n i a | - fi D cr 5 . - r [ e l d n a 8 | _ - - 1 * - - _ - - j 0 - - a J m a i a c | - - - 1 - - - _ d « n - 0 For key and footnotes, see page 476. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • — — • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • — • • Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) sterling (c) French franc (d) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (fl)-(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions4-5 11. Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or U.K. Scheduled Territories 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 RI D - - o X K u w a t i - - - L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . | - - L n o n a b e | - L s e o t o h 1 - o3 'SJ2 3 - L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y | M a c s a g a d a r - M a l a w i | D M a l y a s i a | - 1 - $ 1 - M u a t i r n a i a | - M u a i t i r u s D 8 1 X - M o r o c c o | • — - £ N e t e h l r d n a s | _ - N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e | N e w Z a e l d n a | - N i a c r a u g a | 1 - £ I - N o r w y a | — • - For key and footnotes, see page 476. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • — Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems1 country survey)2 | | | | | a e n i u G s e n i p p i l i h > a i n a m o l 1cd fj 5«J 1 1 w e N a u p a J y a u g a r a ' _ 0 £ _ a m a n a ' e1*J5a! a _ .&o £ •oc<tf »4> 1 0S .2x> 2 1 £ 1 ^ .Si 2 £ £ § 3oj 1 e r o p a g n S i cd i1 o .2 "c3 o 1 1 A" D - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • Analytical Appendix Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems1 (as at date of country survey)2 Key and Footnotes • indicates that practice exists; - indicates that practice does not exist; and 0 indicates that position is undetermined. A indicates that the rate for the U.S. dollar is changed at relatively short intervals. D indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1977. Where the date is a different one, this is indicated in a footnote. 3 Margins of approximately 2.25 per cent either side of parity. 4 Restrictions on payments to member countries in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 6 Resident-owned funds. 6 Membership in, or association with, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, Arab Common Market, Arab League, Asian Clearing Union, Association of South East Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Australia-Papua New Guinea Free Trade Area, Bangkok Agreement, Caribbean Common Market, Cartagena Agreement, Central African Customs and Economic Union, Central American Common Market, Common Organization of African and Mauritian States, Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, East African Community, Economic Community of West African States, European Economic Community, European Free Trade Association, Latin American Free Trade Association, Rand Monetary Area (Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland), Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey), Southern African Customs Union (Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland), or West African Customs Union (or West African Economic Community). 7 The import surcharges do not affect any items bound under the GATT nor any items negotiated with LAFTA countries. 8 Position on January 2, 1978. 9 Accepted obligations of Article VIII on January 3, 1978. 10 Position on January 1, 1978. 11 Applies to the South Vietnamese dong. D11 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French franc (d) Australian dollar, Portuguese escudo, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (<*)-(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions4-B 11. Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or U.K. Scheduled Territories 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 