 A n n u al R e p o rt o n Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 2 0 02 I n t e r n a t i o n al M o n e t a ry F u nd ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 2002 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual Report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and Legislation — Peridicals 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. 1. Title K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.7'51 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-58906-125-x Price: US$110.00 (US$55.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Please send orders to: International Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: publications@imf.org Internet: http://www.imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmitted to Members and Governors of the Fund August 30, 2002 Dear Sir or Madam: I have the honor of transmitting to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 2002, wh ich has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I would like to express our appreciation to the countries for their cooperation in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Horst Kohler Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definition of Acronyms Introduction Compilation Guide Page ix xi 1 2 Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Hong Kong SAR Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Costa Rica C6te d'lvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Page 8 13 18 24 31 35 43 47 51 57 61 67 74 78 88 95 103 107 113 121 126 130 134 138 150 154 160 167 173 178 185 189 194 200 207 214 224 229 v Page 236 242 248 254 258 266 273 283 288 291 295 300 305 310 315 319 326 330 334 341 350 354 358 364 367 371 375 381 385 391 396 401 407 411 415 420 428 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vi CONTENTS Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist People's Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Page 444 452 459 464 467 471 475 480 484 487 498 502 505 514 519 524 528 532 537 542 545 551 555 559 565 570 576 587 591 598 606 609 615 619 627 631 640 645 655 660 666 674 679 683 687 691 Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino SSo Tom£ and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga > Page 695 702 708 712 715 724 727 730 736 740 744 754 761 766 769 776 785 790 795 800 804 810 815 818 823 830 835 840 844 850 856 861 866 875 880 890 894 900 907 911 915 922 927 933 941 949 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Republica Bolivariana de CONTENTS Page 954 958 970 978 983 987 997 1001 1005 1011 1016 1024 1028 Vietnam Yemen, Republic of Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Appendix III: Country Table Matrix vii Page 1033 1040 1044 1053 1057 1067 1070 1077 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official staff visits to member countries, and has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The information is presented in a tabular format. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department by a staff team directed by Shogo Ishii and comprising Kyung-Mo Huh, Virgilio A. Sandoval, and Harald Anderson. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's six area departments, together with staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre and Esha Ray of the External Relations Department and was produced by Mr. Anderson and the IMF Graphics Section. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ACP ACU DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS CEEAC ATC BCEAO BEAC CEFTA CEMAC CEPGL CACM CAP CARICOM Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Union (integrated by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations (integrated by Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and Clothing Central Bank of West African States; the West African states are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo Bank of Central African States; the Central African states are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon Central American Common Market (integrated by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Community and Common Market (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago). The Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market. Economic Community of Central African States (integrated by Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe) Central European Free Trade Area (integrated by Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia) Central African Economic and Monetary Community (integrated by the members of the BEAC) Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (integrated by Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda) Common effective preferential tariff of the ASEAN free trade zone Common external tariff Communaute' financiere d'Afrique (administered by the BCEAO) and Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale (administered by the BEAC) Commonwealth of Independent States (integrated by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan) Common Monetary Area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved; formerly integrated by Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Vietnam) Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (integrated by Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) East African Community European Central Bank Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Eastern Caribbean Currency Union Economic Community of West African States (integrated by Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) European Coal and Steel Community European economic area European Free Trade Association (integrated by Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland) European monetary system European Economic and Monetary Union Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Union (formerly European Community; integrated by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom) ECSC EEA EFTA EMS EMU ERM EU ECCU ECOWAS CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA COMESA EAC ECB ECCB xi ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution xn DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS FATF FSU GCC GSP LAIA Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (of the OECD; integrated by Argentina; Australia; Austria; Belgium; Brazil; Canada; Denmark; European Commission; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; the GCC; China, Hong Kong SAR; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan; Luxembourg; Mexico; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Singapore; Spain; Sweden; Switzerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States). Former Soviet Union Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf; integrated by the Kingdom of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates) Generalized system of preferences Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela) LC Letter of credit LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) MFA Multifiber Arrangement MFN Most favored nation MOF Ministry of Finance NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (integrated by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Republic of Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States) Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (of the Pacific Islands Forum; integrated by Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Pacific Regional Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum) Pacific Island Countries Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum; integrated by Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Regional Council on Public Savings and Financial Markets (an institution of WAEMU countries that is involved in the authorization for issuance and marketing of securities) Regional Integration Facilitation Forum (formerly the Cross-Border Initiative; integrated by Burundi, Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Southern African Customs Union (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Community (integrated by Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special drawing rights South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Central African Customs and Economic Union (integrated by Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) United Nations National Union for the Total Independence of Angola Value-added tax West African Economic and Monetary Union (formerly WAMU; integrated by the members of the BCEAO) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) World Trade Organization UN UNITA VAT WAEMU WAMA WTO SDR SPARTECA RIFF SACU SADC RCPSFM OECS OGL PACER PARTA PICTA UDEAC Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The report provides a detailed description of the ex- change arrangements and exchange/trade restrictions of indi- vidual IMF member countries and Hong Kong SAR, as well as Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 2001, but, in appropriate cases, refer- ence is made to significant developments that took place in early 2002. (A description of the exchange and trade system of East Timor, which joined the IMF on July 23, 2002, will be included in the report for 2003.) The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange re- strictions or exchange controls. As in previous reports, ques- tions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 2001 and early 2002. The report is presented in a tabular format that enhances transparency and the uniformity of treatment of the information across countries and includes coverage on the regulatory frame- work for capital transactions. The information is drawn from the exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database maintained by the IMF. The country chapters present an ab- stract of the relevant information that is available to the IMF. The report also includes the official IMF classification table on Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy (Appendix I). This classification system is based on the infor- mation available on the operations of members' de facto poli- cies, as analyzed by IMF staff, which may differ from countries' officially announced arrangements. The table on Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries (Appendix II) provides an overview of the char- acteristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. The Country Table Matrix (Appendix III) provides a complete listing of the rubrics used in the database. When it is unclear whether a particular category or measure exists, because pertinent information is not available at the time of publication, the category is displayed with the nota- tion "n.a." If a measure is known to exist but specific informa- tion on it is not available, the category is displayed with the notation "yes." When information is available on all but a par- ticular item or items within a category, these items are not in- cluded in the table. In cases where members have provided the IMF with the information that a category or an item is not regu- lated, these are marked by "n.r." 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV The member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The member country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The official legal tender of the country. The existence of another currency that is allowed to be used officially in the country. If there is one exchange rate, the system is called unitary; if there are more than one exchange rates that may be used simultaneously for different purposes and/or by differ- ent entities, the system is called dual or multiple. Different effective exchange rates resulting from exchange taxes or subsidies are not included in this category. The currency of another country circulates as the sole legal tender, or the member belongs to a monetary or currency union in which the same legal tender is shared by the members of the union. A monetary regime based on an explicit legislative commitment to exchange domestic currency for a specified foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate, combined with restrictions on the issuing authority to ensure the fulfillment of its legal obligation. The country pegs its currency (formally or de facto) at a fixed rate to a major currency or a basket of currencies, where the exchange rate fluctuates within a narrow margin of at most ±1% around a central rate. Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands The value of the currency is maintained within certain margins of fluctuation around a formal or de facto fixed peg. The margins are wider than ±1% around the central rate. Crawling peg Crawling band The value of the currency is adjusted periodically in small amounts at a fixed, prean- nounced rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators. The value of the currency is maintained within certain fluctuation margins around a central rate that is adjusted periodically at a fixed, preannounced rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators. Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The monetary authority influences the movements of the exchange rate through active intervention in the foreign exchange market without specifying, or precommitting to, a preannounced path for the exchange rate. Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate is market determined, with any foreign exchange intervention aimed at moderating the rate of change and preventing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate, rather than at establishing a level for it. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to a special tax. Bank commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions are not included in this category; rather, they are listed under the exchange arrangement classification. Foreign exchange transactions are subsidized by using separate, nonmarket exchange rates. Forward exchange market The existence of a forward exchange market. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage of forward operations refers to the case where an official entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of certain foreign exchange transactions. 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of currency requirements COMPILATION GUIDE 3 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The official requirements affecting the selection of currency and the method of set- tlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to a pre- scription of currency for specified categories of payments to, and receipts from, the countries concerned. The category includes information on the use of domestic cur- rency in transactions between residents and nonresidents, both domestically and abroad. The category also indicates whether there are any restrictions on the use of foreign currency among residents. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Two countries conclude an agreement to prescribe specific rules for payments to each other, including cases where private parties are also obligated to use specific currencies. These agreements can be either operative or inoperative. More than two parties participate in a payments agreement. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset with some regularity the balances that arise from payments to each other as a result of the exchange of goods, services, or— less often—capital. The official bodies of two or more countries agree to offset exports of goods and services to one country with imports of goods and services from the same country, without payment. The authorities' division of responsibility for monitoring policy, administering exchange controls, and determining the extent of delegation of powers to outside agencies (often banks are authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions). Restrictions on payments and transfers in connection with international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. International security restrictions on the basis of IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), which establishes the obligation of members to notify the IMF before imposing such restrictions, or, if circumstances preclude advance notification, as promptly as possible. In accordance with UN sanctions Sanctions imposed against a second body on the basis of a UN decision. Payments arrears Official or private residents of a member default on their payments or transfers in foreign exchange to nonresidents. This category includes only the situation in which domestic currency is available for residents to settle their debts, but they are unable to obtain foreign exchange, for example, because of the presence of an officially an- nounced or unofficial queuing system. The category does not cover nonpayment by private parties due to bankruptcy of the party concerned. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The existence of separate rules for trading in gold, both domestically and with foreign countries. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The existence of regulations for the physical movement of means of payment between countries. Where information is available, the category distinguishes between separate limits for the (1) export and import of banknotes by travelers and (2) export and import of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions. Resident Accounts Indicates whether resident accounts that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency, locally or abroad, are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described: for example, whether residents are allowed to open foreign ex- change accounts with or without approval from the exchange control authority; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 COMPILATION GUIDE whether these accounts may be held domestically or abroad; or whether the balances on accounts held by residents in domestic currency may be converted into foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Indicates whether local nonresident accounts maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described. Accounts of nonresidents, usually in domestic currency. Regulations prohibit or limit the conversion and/or transfer of the balances of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Describes the nature and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports. Information on the existence of a foreign exchange plan, i.e., prior allocation of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usually on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods and/or services; in some cases, also differentiating between individual importers. Information on specific import-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the financing options differ from the official regulations. The obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified (usually domestic) financial institution. Most often a compulsory government measure aimed at establishing the veracity of the import contract in terms of volume, quality, and price. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Parties are obligated to use letters of credit as a form of payment for their imports. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses are not used for trade purposes but to restrict the availability of for- eign exchange for legitimate trade. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs A list of goods that may be imported. A list of goods that may not be imported. Indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements. Refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific limit is imposed on the amount to be imported. May include the prohibition to import certain goods from all countries or all goods from a certain country. Several other nontariff measures are used by members (e.g., phyto-sanitary examinations, setting of standards, and so forth), but these are not covered fu l ly in the Report. A brief description of the import tax/tariff system, including taxes levied on the foreign exchange made available for imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 5 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Indicates if any taxes apply to the exchange side of an import transaction. Private parties are not allowed to engage in the import of certain products or they are limited in their activity. Exports and Export Proceeds Describes restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as well as regulations on exports. Repatriation requirements The obligation of exporters to repatriate export proceeds. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Regulations requiring the recipient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to the central bank, commercial banks, foreign exchange markets, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. Information on specific export-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the financing options d iffer from the official regulations. Documentation requirements The same categories as in the case of imports are used. Export licenses Export taxes Restrictions on the right of residents to export goods. These restrictions may take the form of quotas (where a certain quantity of shipment abroad is allowed) or the ab- sence of quotas (where the licenses are issued at the discretion of the foreign trade control authority). A brief description of the export tax system, including any taxes that are levied on the foreign exchange earned by exporters. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Describes the procedures for effecting payments abroad in connection with current transactions in invisibles, with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative and indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Detailed information on the most common categories of transactions is provided only when regulations d iffer for the various categories. Indicative limits establish maximum amounts up to which the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the nature of the transaction, mainly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by the presentation of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also may be applied to transactions for which quantita- tive limits have not been established. Includes freight/insurance (including possible regulations on non-trade related insur- ance payments and transfers); unloading/storage costs; administrative expenses; com- missions; and customs duties and fees. Includes profits/dividends; interest payments (including interest on debentures, mortgages, and so forth); amortization of loans or depreciation of foreign direct investments; and payments and transfers of rent. Includes international travel for business, medical treatment, tourism, and so forth. Includes medical expenditures abroad; study expenses abroad; pensions (including regulations on payments and transfers of pensions by both state and private pension providers on behalf of nonresidents, as well as the transfer of pensions due to resi- dents living abroad); and family maintenance/alimony (including regulations on payments and transfers abroad of family maintenance/alimony by residents). Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Transfer abroad of earnings by nonresidents working in the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 COMPILATION GUIDE Credit card use abroad Other payments Use of credit and debit cards to pay for invisible transactions. Includes subscription/membership fees, authors' royalties, consulting/legal fees, and so forth. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Describes regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in invis- ibles —including descriptions of any limitations on their conversion into domestic currency—and the use of those receipts. The definitions of repatriation and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain types of bank accounts. Capital Transactions Describes regulations influencing both inward and outward capital flows. The concept of controls on capital transactions is interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital transactions include prohibitions; need for prior approval, authorization, and notifica- tion; dual and multiple exchange rates; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the conclusion or execu- tion of transactions or transfers, or the holding of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations applies to receipts as well as to payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. In addition, because of the close association with capital transactions, information is also provided on local financial operations conducted in foreign currency, describing specific regulations in force that limit residents and nonresidents issuing securities denominated in for- eign currency or, generally, limitations on contract agreements expressed in foreign exchange. Refers to public offerings or private placements on primary markets or their listing on secondary markets. Refers to shares and other securities of a participating nature, and bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. Includes transactions involving shares and other securities of a participating nature if they are not effected for the purpose of acquiring a lasting economic interest in the management of the enterprise concerned. Investment for the purpose of acquiring a lasting economic interest is treated under foreign direct investments. Refers to bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. The term "other securities" includes notes and debentures. Refers to securities with an original maturity of one year or less and includes short- term instruments, such as certificates of deposit and bills of exchange. The category also includes treasury bills and other short-term government paper, banker's acceptances, commercial papers, interbank deposits, and repurchase agreements. Includes share certificates and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an institution for collective investment, such as mutual funds, and unit and investment trusts. Refers to operations in other negotiable instruments and nonsecuritized claims not covered under the above subsections. These may include operations in rights; war- rants; financial options and futures; secondary market operations in other financial claims (including sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable instruments originating as loans, receivables, and discounted bills of trade); forward operations (including those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment COMPILATION GUIDE 7 securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign currency, as well as swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Controls on operations in foreign exchange without any other underlying transaction (on spot or forward trading on the foreign exchange markets, on forward cover operations, and so forth) are also included. Covers operations directly linked with international trade transactions or with the rendering of international services. Includes credits other than commercial credits granted by all residents, including banks, to nonresidents or vice versa. Includes those provided by residents to nonresidents and vice versa. It also includes securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract—such as warrants, performance bonds, and standby letters of credit—and financial backup facilities that are credit facilities used as a guarantee for independent financial operations. Refers to investments for the purpose of establishing lasting economic relations both abroad by residents and in the country by nonresidents. These investments are essen- tially for purposes of producing goods and services, and, in particular, investments that allow investor participation in the management of the enterprise. The category includes the creation or extension of a wholly owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the acquisition of fu ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective influence over the operations of the enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Refers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains, of a foreign direct investment as defined above. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct investment. It includes, for example, investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Covers transfers initiated on behalf of private persons and intended to benefit other private persons. It includes transactions involving property to which the promise of a return to the owner with payments of interest is attached (loans, settlements of debt in their country of origin by immigrants), and transfers effected free of charge to the beneficiary (gifts and endowments, loans, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants' assets). Describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary, pruden- tial, and foreign exchange controls. Inclusion of an entry in this category does not necessarily signify that the aim of the measure is to control the flow of capital. Some of these items (borrowing abroad, lending to nonresidents, purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, investment regulations) may merely be repetitions of the entries under respective categories of controls on capital and money market instruments, controls on credit operations, or direct investments when the same regulations apply to commercial banks as well as to other residents. Describes regulations on certain commercial bank balance sheet items (including capital) and on limits covering commercial banks' positions in foreign currencies (including gold). Provisions specific to institutional investors Describes controls specific to institutions, such as insurance companies and pension funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws Refers to additional regulations on capital transfers imposed by law, such as controls on the listing of foreign securities on local security markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31, 1994) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the central bank, maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to less than 10% of convertible cur- rency transactions, including a few transactions of the central government (mainly debt- service payments) and certain foreign currency incomes earned in the Islamic State of Af- ghanistan. Almost all other official transactions are conducted at a commercial rate set by the government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. The ex- change rate applied to transactions of international organizations is set at 80% of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the floating commercial market rate. The DAB posts rates for dollars, euros (from January 1, 2002; through December 31, 2001, deutsche mark and French francs), Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. n.a. n.a. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in operations in the official market or the commercial banking sector. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are specified in each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. The Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, and Russia. Some of these have been inactive for several years, and others are being phased out. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No restrictions apply to transactions in the free exchange market. International security restrictions Payments arrears n.a. n.a. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 9 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from the DAB and the Ministry of Finance. Com- mercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers may bring in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers entering the Islamic State of Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any un- spent amount on departure, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Resident Accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circum- stances change. There is an indicative import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce. Financing requirements for imports n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Payments for imports through the banking system to countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan has payments agreements may usually be made only under LCs. Payments to other countries may be made under LCs, against bills for collection, or against an under- taking by the importer to import goods of at least an equivalent value to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN LCs. The deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are 20% for essential products and range from 30% to 60% for other products. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports are not subject to licenses, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Most bilateral agreements specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for the products to be traded. The importation of certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition is prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of a few textiles and selected nones- sential consumer goods is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on most imports, but tariff rates on most consumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar ac- counts with the DAB. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for three, six, or twelve months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in the Islamic State of Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from exports of raisins, fresh fruits, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, medici- nal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export transactions must be registered. The exportation of opium and museum pieces is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries. Yes. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange for most private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. Investment-related payments Information is not available on amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $1. A further charge of 1% on the total value of other convertible currencies is levied for permits for their export by authorized travelers. Yes. The limit for tourist travel is $1,000, except for private travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. The limit for business travel is $15,000. For medical treatment, the central bank levies a commission of Af 0.75 per $1. No informa- tion is available for other types of personal payments other than medical costs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 11 Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Yes. Normally, the DAB grants $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must convert 60% of their foreign currency salaries into Afghanis at the official rate. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions n.a. n.a. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Investment Committee. The law stipulates that foreign investment in the Islamic State of Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49%, and that an in- vestment approved by the Investment Committee requires no further license to operate in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law in- cludes the following provisions: (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly for capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemp- tion from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the prod- ucts are not among the prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law, as long as the prices are not more than 15% higher than those of foreign suppliers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of the total registered capital. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Changes During 1995-2001 The information provided on the exchange and trade system of the Islamic State of Af- ghanistan is tentative, as the IMF has received limited information from the authorities in this area since 1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Albania is the Albanian lek. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supply and demand for for- eign exchange. The Bank of Albania (BOA) calculates and announces the daily average exchange rates for the dollar and 10 other major currencies and the prices of gold and silver. No margins are set between buying and selling rates for the official exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.2% to 2%, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payment for all merchandise trade is made in convertible currencies. All transactions under bilateral payment agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing ac- counts is awaiting the outcome of negotiations. All contracts denominated and payable in foreign currencies are valid. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Clearing agreements Administration of control Albania maintains bilateral clearing agreements in nonconvertible currencies with Algeria, Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and Vietnam. Albania also maintains bilateral clearing agreements in convertible currencies with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, Turkey, Vietnam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The BOA is vested with the powers to administer exchange controls. The BOA is the only authority that has the right to (1) license, authorize, regulate, supervise, and revoke the licenses of foreign exchange market operations, as well as second-tier banks; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) regulate and supervise foreign exchange operations and international payments in order to prevent any participant from dominating the market and undermining the value of the lek through speculation. In accordance with anti-money laundering legislation, banks are required to maintain re- cords of all cash transactions in excess of lek 2 million (approximately $14,000) and on all other transactions in excess of lek 70 million (approximately $500,000), and to report these to the authority responsible for the prevention of money laundering. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Albania has arrears on debts owed to China, Greece, the Russian Federation, Turkey, and with a number of official and commercial creditors. Bilateral rescheduling agreements 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ALBANIA for official payments to Turkey were concluded during 2001. Official payment arrears to the Russian Federation are subject to a Paris Club Agreement, for which a bilateral re- scheduling agreement was reached and ratified by the Albanian parliament in December 2001—it entered into force in early 2002. Albania has arrears on debts owed to private parties. Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. n.r. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Natural and juridical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign natural persons may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount declared when entering the country. Albanian natural or juridical persons are not allowed to export amounts larger than $20,000 or its equivalent. Natural and juridical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Natural and juridical persons are allowed to import foreign currency and traveler's checks up to $10,000 or its equivalent in any other currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Residents—natural or juridical persons—may open and maintain foreign currency-denom- inated accounts with banks and financial institutions abroad only with the prior approval of the BOA, which may control and monitor transactions affecting such accounts. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs ALBANIA 15 For imports equal to or larger than $20,000 or its equivalent, the following documents must be submitted: (1) an application for carrying out the transaction as well as a declaration specifying in detail the nature of the transaction; (2) a contract and an invoice (or a pro forma invoice) issued by the natural or juridical person supplying the goods; and (3) a dec- laration that the underlying document has not been used to support previous transactions, which is to be issued by the natural or juridical person wishing to carry out the transaction with the bank. LCs, bank guarantees, or cash against documents should be used for the payment of imports equal to or in excess of $200,000 or its equivalent. Yes. Yes. Yes. Automatic licensing restrictions are applied on fuel products to support the implementation of domestic technical standards. The import of the following products is prohibited: (1) dangerous waste, such as toxic cor- rosives, residual waste from explosives, and radioactive materials; (2) military poisons, chemical weapons, and other strong poisons; (3) narcotics and psychotropic substances; and (4) animal products from countries infected with livestock diseases. Excise taxes on domestic and imported goods are unified. There are four tariff rates, which are applied to the c.i.f. value: zero, 2%, 10%, and 15% (reduced from 18%, effective Janu- ary 1, 2001). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All private and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate their foreign exchange receipts. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export bans apply on copper and articles made thereof; works of art, arms and ammuni- tions, as well as parts and accessories therefor; and explosives and pyrotechnic products. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Supporting documents are required for transactions exceeding $20,000 or its equivalent. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ALBANIA Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases of these instruments abroad by residents require prior approval of the BOA. Trade in these instruments locally or abroad is subject to the control of the Albanian Securities Commission. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Transactions in these instruments are subject to the control of the Albanian Securities Commission, but these are not yet regulated. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. n.r. Commercial banks may not, without the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other financial institutions. Commercial banks may not, without the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other financial institutions. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 17 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the BOA. Purchase locally by nonresidents The controls relate only to the purchase of land. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Prior BOA approval is required. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may not, without the prior approval of the BOA, extend credit to nonresidents, except to banks and other financial institutions. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of the bank's capital for a single currency and 30% for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Imports and import payments January L The maximum tariff rate was reduced to 15% from 18%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of Acceptance: September 15, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the dinar is set at the interbank foreign exchange market rate. No margin limits are imposed on the buying and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria (BOA) for the dinar against the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may provide forward cover to residents, but this has not taken place. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which no payment agreements are in force are made in convertible currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts may be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise, except that transactions with Morocco may be effected in dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of each country. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are made through a Moroccan dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tunisian dinar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general jurisdiction over exchange controls. Authority for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to commercial banks and the Postal Administration. No. No. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la transformation de Tor et des autres m&aux precieux (AGENOR); this agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and distrib- ute any other precious metals. AGENOR is authorized to import and export any precious metals, including gold. Gold used by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 19 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may reexport any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Resident travelers may export foreign currency withdrawn from their foreign currency ac- counts up to the equivalent of €7,622.45 (previously F 50,000) a trip for an unlimited num- ber of trips a year. Resident travelers may reimport up to DA 200 a person. Nonresidents are not permitted to bring in Algerian dinar banknotes. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes, but residents and non- residents must declare them when they enter Algeria. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically These accounts may be freely credited with book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and domestic bank- to-bank book transfers between accounts held by individuals. These accounts may be deb- ited freely for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system. They may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of con- vertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the BOA. Economic entities are also allowed to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained portion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign currency payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in limited cases, such as for embassies. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currency banknotes and other means of pay- ment denominated in foreign currency, as well as other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited without restrictions to make transfers abroad, to export through withdrawals of foreign banknotes, and to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Final departure accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural person residing in Algeria who is not of Algerian nationality, and who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited with an amount equivalent to the holdings as of October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 Approval required Blocked accounts ALGERIA Outward transfers require individual approval from the BOA. Individual suspense accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. Except when otherwise indicated by the BOA, down payments for imports may not exceed 15% of the total value of imports. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry incurs expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Although not mandatory, domiciled banks may require from the importer, as part of their normal commercial operations, a deposit in dinars up to the fu ll value of the imports. Imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. All imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma in- voice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars valued at the official exchange rate. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Any juridical or natural person registered under the Commercial Register (including con- cessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods without prior authorization; no license is needed. Negative list There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A small number of imports are prohibited for religious or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days. Petroleum companies are subject to the same rule, but proceeds may be deposited in a guaranteed account with a foreign correspondent bank of the BOA. All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and min- eral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must surrender 50% of the proceeds to the interbank market; the remaining portion may be retained in a foreign currency account. Exporters may use the funds in these accounts for imports or other payments pertaining to their business, or they may transfer the funds to another for- eign currency account. Proceeds from exports of nonhydrocarbons, and nonminerals may be surrendered to commercial banks and other authorized participants in the interbank for- eign exchange market. F inanc ing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requirements are not enforced in practice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 21 Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are prohibited, and certain exports are prohibited for social or cultural reasons regardless of destination. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel The transfer abroad of dividends and interest is permitted, provided it is executed through an authorized intermediary. Information is not available on the payment or transfer of amortization of loans or deprecia- tion of direct investments. Profit remittances are permitted, provided tax obligations have been met. Authorization is to be granted by the exchange control authorities within two months of request. Transfer must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism by Algerian residents were suspended in October 1986. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals. The amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be provided in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by non- residents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The quantitative l im it is DA 15,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval of the BOA is required for transfers of pension income. For family maintenance and alimony payments, the BOA must authorize the granting of foreign exchange. Limits are set on a case-by-case basis. The limits for medical costs are DA 15,900 for adults and DA 7,600 for children under 15 years of age. The limit for studies abroad is DA 9,000 (previously DA 7,500) a month between September 1 and June 30. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on family maintenance and alimony transfers. Foreign workers' wages Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of their salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required for payments relating to subscriptions and membership fees and consulting and legal fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ALGERIA Surrender requirements Fifty percent of receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual approval by the BOA. Portfolio investment (purchase of securities on the Algerian stock exchange) by nonresi- dents is allowed. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments are allowed, but they must be executed through an authorized intermediary. The transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of shares or other securities of a participating nature on the stock exchange is permitted, provided the transfer is effected through author- ized intermediaries (banks). Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in bonds or other debt securities. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments are allowed, but they must be effected through an authorized intermediary. The transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of portfolio investments (bonds or other debt securities) on the stock exchange may be made freely, but transfers must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities by residents to nonresidents. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign direct investment is permitted freely except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from disinvestment following the closing or transfer of a business operation may be transferred abroad through banks or authorized intermediaries, subject to prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad ALGERIA 23 Yes. n.a. Banks and financial institutions may borrow from abroad for their own needs or for those of their clients. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks and financial institutions may on-lend foreign funds borrowed abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Banks and financial institutions are required to meet the following: (1) a maximum spread of 10% between their position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their counterpart funds in domestic currency; and (2) a maximum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, whichever is highest) for all foreign currencies and domestic currency resources. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Angola is the Angolan kwanza. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The exchange rate of the kwanza is market determined. However, the Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA) intervenes in the foreign exchange market. Since March 2001, the BNA has engaged in a more active intervention policy, allowing only modest depreciations of the official exchange rate. As a result, effective March 31,2001, the exchange rate arrange- ment of Angola has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. The BNA publishes daily a reference rate, which is computed as the transaction-weighted average of the day's rates. Authorized foreign exchange dealers (i.e., banks and exchange bureaus) may deal among themselves and with their customers at freely negotiated rates. Foreign exchange operations are subject to a stamp duty of 1.5%. Transactions between banking institutions or involving banknotes and traveler's checks are exempt from this duty. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with other countries may be made through bank transfers, LCs, or financing and banking agreements. An agreement with Brazil is in effect. There are agreements with Portugal and Spain. The BNA is the exchange authority and may delegate its powers to other entities that are authorized to engage in foreign exchange activities. All capital transactions and invisible operations exceeding $50,000 are subject to prior BNA authorization. The BNA has author- ized commercial banks and exchange bureaus to carry out certain transactions in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions may deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current invisible operations of a private nature. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Yes. Yes. Yes. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 25 Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Residents are permitted to hold and trade gold only in the form of jewelry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold—both coins and bullion —are the monopoly of the BNA. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are prohibited. Residents are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $10,000 in foreign exchange. They may take out amounts exceeding this limit only if they present exchange purchase documents, including statements regarding the reason for the purchase. When leaving An- gola, nonresidents are allowed to take out up to $5,000. They may take out amounts ex- ceeding this limit, provided that the amount was declared upon arrival in the country. The export and reexport of banknotes and traveler's checks by banking institutions require a prior authorization issued by the governor of the BNA. Imports of domestic currency are prohibited. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks that a resident person may bring into the country; for nonresidents, any amount in excess of $5,000 must be declared upon arrival. Banking institutions are free to import banknotes and traveler's checks, but they must submit a monthly report to the BNA. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Checkbooks may not be issued against accounts of juridical and natural persons. These accounts may be credited by depositing foreign currency or any other instruments accepted internationally and accruing interest. These accounts may be debited with withdrawal or sale of foreign exchange to settle imports or capital payments, as allowed by law. Transfers between these accounts are permitted, but overdrafts are not. After prior BNA approval, juridical persons are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts that may be credited with their export receipts to pay for imports of goods and services. For natural persons, no approval is required for holding these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currency imported from abroad, with the ac- crued interest, or with sums from nonresidents' type A domestic currency accounts. They may be debited for the withdrawal or sale of foreign currency, payments for foreign cur- rency expenditures, or the repatriation of amounts authorized by the BNA. Nonresidents may open two types of domestic currency accounts: type A and type B. The type A account may be credited with the proceeds from sales of funds from foreign ex- change accounts and, after prior BNA authorization, with receipts from the nonresident's activities in Angola. These accounts may be debited for payments of local expenses and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ANGOLA against purchases of foreign currency to be deposited in a foreign currency account held by the same entity. The type B account may only be credited with receipts of the nonresident's activity in the country (when authorized by the BNA), and may only be debited for payment of local expenses. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports of goods valued at more than $5,000 require preshipment inspection. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses There are restrictions on imports of currency, toxic products, and certain drugs by private persons. Imports of arms and ammunition for personal use are subject to authorization by the Ministry of the Interior. Imports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the REM (entry merchan- dise registration) system for statistical purposes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff system consists of eight rates, ranging from 1% to 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly The stamp tax is collected through the exchange system. Imports of oil products and derivatives may be effected only by the public oil company. Imports of arms and ammunition for warfare purposes may be effected only by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Domestic oil companies must surrender all their export proceeds to the BNA. Foreign oil companies are allowed, with BNA authorization, to retain their export receipts abroad for payments of imports of goods and services, interest and profits transfer, and the amortiza- tion of capital. These companies must import funds for payment of royalties, taxes, and local expenses. Foreign exchange earnings by the non-oil sector must be surrendered to domestic banks. Diamond companies are allowed to retain in banks in the country a per- centage of the receipts of exports for payments of imports of goods and services. They may also retain part of their receipts abroad in escrow accounts, with BNA authorization, as a guarantee against foreign borrowing. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas ANGOLA 27 Exports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the RSM (exit merchan- dise registration) system for statistical purposes. Reexports of goods other than personal belongings are prohibited. Exports of arms, ammunition, and ethnological collections are prohibited. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, and petroleum. Export taxes Export taxes comprise six rates: 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, and 10%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Banks must obtain BNA authorization in order to effect payments for invisibles in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent. Trade-related payments Service contracts with nonresidents in excess of $50,000 are subject to licensing. Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Foreign investors must obtain MOF authorization to remit profits and dividends, provided the investment in the resident company exceeds $250,000. Residents may, upon presentation of a passport and an airline ticket, purchase foreign ex- change from financial institutions as follows: for personal travel, $10,000 a person a trip; for business travel, a maximum of $500 a day for up to 30 days; for educational, scientific, or cultural reasons, $2,000 a person a month (this is limited to resident persons who are temporarily abroad); and for medical reasons, a maximum of $5,000. Prior approval is required for the payment of pensions in excess of $50,000. Up to the equivalent of $2,000 a month may be authorized to Angolans or foreigners resid- ing abroad who are direct descendants of and financially dependent on residents of Angola, provided that they are under 18 or over 60 years of age, are students, or are incapable of working. Yes. Only banks may issue credit cards. Use of credit cards abroad is limited to the equivalent of $10,000. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Service earnings must be surrendered to the banks, unless the provider is authorized by the BNA to retain a certain proportion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 ANGOLA Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Foreign investment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acquisition of equity, total or partial takeover of operations, and lending related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law as well as the provi- sions of foreign exchange legislation and regulations. Implementation is the responsibil- ity of the Foreign Investment Institute. Foreign investments in the areas of petroleum pro- duction, diamond mining, and financial institutions are governed by separate legislation. All capital transfers are subject to BNA licensing. Suppliers' credits must be licensed for statistical purposes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. Commercial credits Operations are subject to licensing for statistical purposes only. By residents to nonresidents Suppliers' credits must be reported to the BNA. To residents from nonresidents Suppliers' credits must be reported to the BNA. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants ANGOLA 29 Yes. Yes. In accordance with the Exchange Control Law, Angolan citizens are permitted to invest abroad. Foreign investment is prohibited in the following areas: (1) defense, internal public order, and state security; (2) central banking and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state. With prior approval of the MOF, foreign investors are guaranteed the right to transfer abroad the proceeds of the sale of investments, including gains and amounts owed to them after payments of taxes due. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Demand deposits in local currency are subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. The base of reserve requirements includes demand deposits in foreign currency, with a coefficient of 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 ANGOLA Liquid asset requirements Liquid asset requirements are 50% of the foreign exchange portfolio. Credit controls Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange only to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of $500,000; for foreign exchange bureaus, the amount is up to $150,000. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement March 31. In light of more active intervention in the foreign exchange market, the ex- change rate arrangement of Angola was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of May 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A foreign exchange levy of 1% is applied on purchases of foreign currency. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the CARICOM. Yes. The MOF applies exchange controls to all foreign currency transactions. However, up to the equivalent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency may be purchased without MOF approval. On May 3, 2002, the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Yes. No. There are restrictions on exports of domestic currency outside the ECCU. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts External accounts may be opened, especially in tourist-oriented industries or in export trade where receipts are primarily in foreign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. These accounts may be held domestically, but commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. n.a. n.r. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts may be maintained in any currency and may be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be maintained, but prior approval is required, Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence. Up to EC$250,000 a transaction may be purchased in foreign currency without MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Certain goods require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Most goods may be freely imported under OGLs granted by the MOF and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce. Customs duty rates range from zero to 35% for nearly all items. Custom duties correspond- ing to the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET are in the range of zero to 20%. There are no customs duties on a number of items, including milk and poultry. Some goods, including basic foods and agricultural goods, are exempt from customs duties. Other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis. State import monopoly n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 33 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Other Export licenses Export taxes n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for invisibles (related to authorized imports) exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval for certain categories, except for payments for freight, insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, and profits and dividends, which are not subject to controls. Profits may be remitted in fu ll after compliance with corporate income tax payments. Veri- fication is not applied in practice; the authorities, however, can decide to undertake such verification. Information is not available on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required only for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the transfer of pensions. Payments related to family maintenance and alimony are allowed if provided for in the contract. For payments related to medical expenses and studies abroad, approval on a case-by-case basis is required only for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits These remittances are allowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. Payments for consulting and legal fees are allowed, if provided for in the contract. The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is ECS 10,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes may be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required, and the purchase must be approved by the Cabinet. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws As a result of laws governing offshore financial institutions (1) the International Financial Sector Authority was created, with responsibility for licensing offshore financial institu- tions; (2) there are annual inspections of offshore financial institutions; (3) the minimum capital requirement for offshore banks is US$5 million, of which US$1.5 million is to be deposited in the domestic banking system; (4) all bank directors are to be natural persons, at least one of whom must be a national of Antigua and Barbuda (thus making bank owner- ship more transparent); and (5) offshore banks are allowed to extend credit to the Antiguan and Barbudan government. MOF approval is required for these transactions. Loans are subject to a 3% stamp duty. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts May 3. The authorities of Antigua and Barbuda notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations, in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of June 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine peso. Transactions in other currencies are permitted, and contracts in them are legally enforceable, even though the currencies are not legal tender. Prior to January 5, 2002, a unitary exchange rate was in operation. Effective that date, a dual exchange rate system was introduced. It consisted of an official exchange rate of Arg$1.4 per US$1, which applied to certain trade and financial transactions, and the float- ing market exchange rate, which applied to all other transactions. Effective February 11, 2002, the official exchange rate was eliminated and the dual market was unified. The exchange rate of the Argentine peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange mar- ket. Prior to December 6, 2001, the external value of the peso was pegged to the dollar under a currency board type of arrangement. Exchange rates of other currencies were based on the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. On December 1, 2001, the authorities partially froze bank deposits, and, on December 6, 2001, the authorities intro- duced exchange restrictions and capital controls. These measures effectively terminated the currency board arrangement, which had been in effect since 1991. Effective February 11, 2002, the authorities officially allowed the peso to float in a unified market, but have been intervening in the market frequently. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement of Argentina has been reclassified from the category currency board arrange- ment to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. No. From June 18, 2001, until January 5, 2002, an exchange subsidy applicable to most exports was in effect. The subsidy was calculated as the difference between US$1 and €1 at LIBOR. Importers paid this rate, multiplied by the c.i.f. value of the imports, and exporters received this rate, multiplied by the f.o.b. value of the exports. Certain goods were excluded from this mechanism. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Effective March 15, 2002, forward exchange operations with foreign counterparts require prior authorization from the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA). On June 3, 2002, this restriction was extended to include forward operations with local counterparts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Transactions with countries with which there are no payments agreements must be settled in freely convertible currencies. Controls on the use of domestic currency Domestic banknotes and coins may be used for buying foreign exchange that may be used freely for any purpose, except for transactions requiring BCRA authorization. Demand and saving time deposits in domestic currency held in the "corralito" may be used to buy foreign exchange only for international transactions permitted by the BCRA. (The corralito bank regulations restrict the flow of funds outside the banking system by limiting cash withdrawals and directing domestic payments into accounts within the banking 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 ARGENTINA system. They embody an element of exchange control inasmuch as they limit the converti- bility of currency and the making of payments and transfers for some international transac- tions.) Demand deposits in the corralito may be used for purchasing foreign exchange un- der foreign exchange regulations for the following purposes: (1) payments for imports of goods and services in accordance with BCRA regulations; (2) other payments for services abroad, provided that, when the nature of the service for which payments are to be made has no direct relationship to the activities of the firm, detailed documentation must be sub- mitted; (3) payments for profits and dividends, subject to submission of a statement by a Professional Council-certified external auditor and BCRA approval; (4) payments of finan- cial obligations with respect to principal and interest; and (5) payments for expenditures related to participation in trade fairs and exhibitions for export promotion purposes. Yes. Yes. Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA, payments between Argentina and other LAIA countries are settled voluntarily through payments agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. Argentina has agreements with Cuba, Malaysia, and Russia. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through accounts opened with the BCRA and the other central banks concerned, with the exception of Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. Yes. All exchange transactions must be carried out through specially authorized entities. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies. Each institution is subject to separate regulations. Restrictions are imposed on current payments with respect to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or gold bars among themselves, and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals, the market value of which is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.5% and a sales tax. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad with prior BCRA authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Effective February 3, 2002, authorized banks may open demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies and time deposits in dollars and euros on behalf of the following entities, pro- vided that identification requirements (intended, inter alia, to prevent money laundering) have been met: (1) diplomatic representatives and embassies; (2) official institutions and entities responsible for the administration of lending agreements or donations signed with international financial institutions related to investment projects; and (3) persons subject to the regulations of the National Securities Commission. Prior to that date, foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 37 accounts had to be denominated in convertible currencies and could be credited only with cash or with remittances in the following currencies: U.S. dollars for demand, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and other currencies that the BCRA explicitly authorized at the request of financial institutions for savings deposits and fixed-term accounts. Credit balances on these accounts may be used freely in Argentina or abroad. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective May 5, 2002, (1) consumer goods must be fu l ly financed abroad for periods of 45, 90, or 180 days, depending on the type of product; (2) capital goods with values of less than US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 30% of their value, and the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum period of 180 days after shipment—capital goods valued at more than US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 20% of their value and the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum of 360 days after shipment; (3) pay- ments for imports of inputs, equipment, and spare parts intended for the construction, re- pair, maintenance, or replacement of parts for nuclear power plants and installations for offshore production and processing of hydrocarbons may be made in advance in accor- dance with the applicable commercial terms; and (4) any other goods not considered above must be financed abroad for a period of at least 360 days. Effective March 25, 2002, most imports may be paid in advance when the importer has funds available in a foreign currency (cash or deposits abroad). Effective May 5, 2002, (1) raw materials, intermediate goods, and essential products as defined by the Secretary of Industry and Commerce may be paid in advance. Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for a reduced list of products. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are prescribed for paper products and footwear. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Restrictions are in force solely for security, hygiene, and public health reasons. OGLs are required for a limited list of products. Quantitative restrictions are applied to automobile sector products from MERCOSUR countries and to performance sports footwear from non-MERCOSUR countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 ARGENTINA Other nontariff measures Nontariff barriers are not applied to intra-MERCOSUR trade. Argentina, however, applies a special regime to sugar imports with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agree- ment on a common regime for this sector. Quantitative restrictions are applied to some textile products imported from the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Korea. Imports of secondhand clothing, tires, and some capital goods are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs There is no common regime in MERCOSUR for sugar. Argentina and MERCOSUR apply a CET to imports from the rest of the world that encom- passes all products. CET rates currently range from zero to 20%. A number of products are subject to an additional tariff of 2.5%. A CET of 16% applies to a list of computer and telecommunications products until 2006* Effective June 18, 2001, the maximum import tariff for non-MERCOSUR trade was reduced to 28%.The national list now covers 100 products and the import tariffs on some capital goods may be reduced, in some cases, to 3% or, exceptionally, to zero percent. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Effective December 6, 2001, export proceeds must be repatriated within 15 to 180 days, depending on the types of products involved, with the following exceptions: (1) exports that have received specific exemptions under law, executive decrees, or contracts with the government; (2) exports that are to be used to settle export advances or service principal and interest on export financing and prefinancing loans that (a) are financed or guaranteed by local financial institutions, regardless of their source of financing; (b) were contracted before December 6, 2001 (subject to BCRA approval); or (c) were disbursed between De- cember 6, 2001, and January 10, 2002, via the official foreign exchange market (since January 11, 2002) or via the unified and unrestricted exchange market (since February 11, 2002); (3) exports that have been earmarked to service properly recorded financial con- tracts in effect on or since November 30, 2001 (subject to BCRA approval); and (4) exports that will be used to repay principals on financial liabilities to foreign entities outstanding on November 30, 2001, that have been restructured on terms exceeding three years as of each repayment day (subject to BCRA approval). Effective December 6, 2001, repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign ex- change market within five or ten days after repatriation, depending on the types of products involved (previously, they had to be surrendered to the CBRA). Effective May 31, 2002, export proceeds exceeding US$1 million (effective June 18, 2002, US$0.5 million), export advances, and export prefinancing must be surrendered to the CBRA. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of arms, sensitive goods, and war materials. There are quantitative restrictions on exports of protected animal species. A 5% export duty is applied to untanned, pickled aplite and wet blue leathers, and a 3.5% duty is applied to cotton, flax, groundnuts, soybeans, sunflower seeds, and turnips. Effec- tive June 18, 2001, the rate of tax rebates was reduced to 5% from 12%, and rebates were extended to MERCOSUR exports. Effective March 4,2002, export duty rates have been raised to 5-20% and are applied to all exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 39 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Effective February 11, 2002, remittances of profits and dividends require prior CBRA au- thorization through August 12, 2002. Also effective that date, interest payments on finan- cial loans contracted before February 11, 2002 require CBRA authorization —with certain exemptions—through August 12, 2002. Payments of reinsurance premiums require prior authorization from the National Superin- tendency of Insurance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective February 11, 2002, proceeds from exports of services must be repatriated and surrendered within 15 days of collection—locally or abroad—or credited to a foreign account. Surrender requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Once converted into pesos, proceeds must be held in the corralito. Controls on capital transactions Effective May 1, 2001, the financial transactions tax, levied on credit and debit transactions of banks, was increased to 0.4% from 0.25%. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Under the regulations of the National Securities Commission (CNV), foreign and Argentine issuers must meet the same requirements to make a public offering of securities in Argen- tina. Both must establish a permanent representative office and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. Foreign issuers must state whether the securities are also being offered to the public in their country of origin, and specify the initial and periodic information re- quirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the coun- try of origin properly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the requirements for these investors. The CNV may authorize foreign issuers on a case-by-case basis to submit only such information as they would periodically submit to the corresponding authority in their jurisdiction of origin. Issuers of public offerings of securities domestically and abroad must present simultane- ously all required information in Spanish to the entities that authorize the public offering and listing abroad to the CNV. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of shares of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Control is applied only for commercial papers. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ARGENTINA Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Forward and other derivatives contracts—except for currency and commodity swaps—are subject to CBRA approval. Forward and other derivatives contracts—except for currency and commodity swaps—are subject to CBRA approval. Effective February 11, 2002, transfers related to repayments of principals on loans con- tracted before February 11, 2002, are subject to prior CBRA approval, with the following exceptions, which are in effect until August 12, 2002: (1) debts owed to international or- ganizations, official credit agencies, credit agencies that are members of the Berne Union, and banks cofmancing investment projects with international organizations or that are guar- anteed by credit agencies; (2) debts owed to multilateral credit agencies (MCA) with equity participation from the national government through the CBRA, and to MCA with special agreements providing the same treatment as other MCAs; and (3) public sector obligations. Yes. Yes. No. Purchases of real estate in border areas by foreign investors require prior approval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense for national security reasons. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits granted by financial intermediaries must be used in the country and must finance investment, production, commercialization, and consumption of goods and services for internal consumption or export. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are limits on the maximum amount of securities a bank may hold from a particular issuer. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Transactions are prohibited by virtue of policies on general lending. There are regulations on the minimum capital held against market risks. The limit on the overall foreign exchange position (defined as foreign currency liquid assets held abroad plus long spot and forward positions in foreign currency securities of foreign issuers and domestic holdings of foreign currency banknotes and coins) is the equivalent of 5% of regulatory capital outstanding at end-November 2001 or US$1 million, whichever is larger. The limit for nonbank financial entities is 5% of regulatory capital or US$0.5 million, whichever is larger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 41 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally There is a 25% limit on investment trust portfolios, but this limit does not apply to MERCOSUR. For diversification, and according to law, no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign sovereign, or in securities of foreign corporations issued abroad. In the event that a trust's assets consist of the securities, a tender offer should be made in Argentina or abroad with a minimum of 75% of the investment being made in assets issued and traded in Argentina. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Due to the implicit list associated with positions in different currencies other than the U.S. dollar, additional capital is required to cover those risks. Deposits and loans in those currencies are computed to build the position. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 18. An exchange subsidy applicable to most exports was introduced. December L The authorities partially froze bank deposits. December 6. The authorities introduced exchange restrictions and capital controls. Imports and import payments June 18. The maximum import tariff for non-MERCOSUR trade was reduced to 28%. Exports and export proceeds June 18. The rate of tax rebates was reduced to 5% from 12%, and rebates were extended to MERCOSUR exports. Capital transactions Exchange arrangement December 6. Export proceeds were required to be repatriated within 15 to 180 days, de- pending on the types of products involved, with specific exceptions. December 6. Repatriated export proceeds were required to be sold in the foreign exchange market within five or ten days after repatriation, depending on the types of products in- volved (previously, they had to be surrendered to the CBRA). May 1. The financial transactions tax, levied on banks credits and debits, was increased to 0.4% from 0.25%. Changes During 2002 January 5. A dual exchange rate system was introduced, consisting of an official exchange rate of Arg$1.4 per US$1, applicable to certain trade and financial transactions, and the floating market exchange rate, applicable to all other transactions. January 5. The exchange subsidy was terminated. February 11. The official exchange rate was eliminated and the dual market was unified. February 11. The authorities formally allowed the peso to float. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement of Argentina was reclassified from the category currency board arrange- ment to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. March 15. Forward exchange operations with foreign counterparts required prior authorization from the BCRA. June 3. The restriction that forward exchange operations with foreign counterparts require prior authorization from the BCRA was extended to include forward operations with local counterparts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 Resident accounts Imports and import payments ARGENTINA February 3. Authorized banks were allowed to open demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies and time deposits in dollars and euros on behalf of select entities, provided that identification requirements (intended, inter alia, to prevent money laundering) have been met. January 10. With the implementation of the dual exchange rate system, minimum financing requirements were imposed on imports that were allowed to be paid at the official exchange rate. Imports and import payments February 11. The minimum financing requirements were maintained in the unified market. March 25. Any import could be paid in advance when the importer has funds available in a foreign currency (cash or deposits abroad). May 5. Legislation came into effect stipulating that (1) raw materials, intermediate goods, and essential products as defined by the Secretary of Industry and Commerce may be paid in advance; (2) consumer goods must be fu l ly financed abroad for periods of 45, 90, or 180 days, depending on the type of product; (3) capital goods with values of less than US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 30% of their value, and the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum period of 180 days after shipment—capital goods valued at more than US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 20% of their value, and the re- mainder must be financed abroad for a minimum of 360 days after shipment; (4) payments for imports of inputs, equipment, and spare parts intended for the construction, repair, maintenance, or replacement of parts for nuclear power plants and installations for offshore production and processing of hydrocarbons may be made in advance in accordance with the applicable commercial terms; and (5) any other goods not considered above must be financed abroad for a period of at least 360 days. Exports and export proceeds March 4. Export duty rates were raised to 5-20% and were applied to all exports. May 31. Export proceeds exceeding US$1 million, export advances, and export prefinancing were required to be surrendered to the CBRA. June 18. The amount of export proceeds that must be surrendered to the CBRA was reduced to US$0.5 million. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 11. Interest payments on financial loans contracted before February 11, 2002, required CBRA authorization—with certain exemptions—through August 12, 2002. February 11. Remittances of profits and dividends required prior CBRA authorization through August 12, 2002. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 11. Proceeds from exports of services were required to be repatriated and surren- dered within 15 days of collection—locally or abroad—or credited to a foreign account. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations February 11. Transfers related to repayments of principals on loans contracted before Feb- ruary 11, 2002, were subject to prior CBRA approval, with certain exceptions, which are to be in effect until August 12, 2002. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Armenia is the Armenian dram. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Armenia has adopted an independently floating exchange rate regime. The Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) pursues a policy of monetary targeting for which it manages the reserve money as its operational target and intervenes in the foreign exchange market only to smooth the fluctuations of reserve money. Foreign exchange transactions take place pre- dominantly in the interbank market, in which the CBA also participates. Foreign exchange auctions in Armenia are currently inoperative. Purchases and sales of foreign currency may be implemented through foreign exchange entities licensed by the CBA, including banks, foreign exchange dealers, and foreign ex- change bureaus and through the CBA itself. Foreign exchange entities carry out foreign exchange transactions by setting their own buying and selling rates without any restrictions. The exchange rate of the dram against the dollar is determined on the basis of exchange rates prevailing in the interbank market on the previous day. The official exchange rate is set as the average (midpoint) of the CBA's buying and selling rates. The official exchange rate is used for accounting purposes and is used in daily operations with the treasury. Foreign exchange entities use the official exchange rate of the CBA for bookkeeping and revaluation purposes. Foreign exchange entities and other business entities determine exchange rates for their operations independently. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. However, for the time being, the forward exchange market in Armenia is still undeveloped, although some banks sign forward contracts in small amounts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents and nonresidents are prohibited from using foreign exchange as a means of payment within Armenia. Armenia maintains agreements with Russia and Turkmenistan. Armenia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Union (with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), which provides for the eventual establishment of a customs union, a payments union, cooperation on investment, industrial development, and customs procedures. Armenia also joined the 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 ARMENIA Clearing agreements Administration of control Agreement on the Establishment of a Payments Union of CIS member countries. Armenia is a member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), together with Albania, Azer- baijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. Bilat- eral free trade agreements have been signed with Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Ukraine, though only the agreement with Russia is in operation. There is an arrangement with Turkmenistan for the importation of natural gas. In addition, bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inoperative. The CBA is the main body that formulates and administers exchange rate policy and that may issue foreign exchange regulations within Armenia. The CBA also has the overall responsibility for currency control, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE). In general, the MOFE exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CBA exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. Resident and nonresi- dent currency dealers, including banks, may undertake foreign exchange transactions with- out restriction. There are no restrictions on current and capital movements unless otherwise specified by the CBA (in which case one month's notice is required). International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official There are arrears to the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Individuals are authorized to transfer, deliver, and export currency and securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 without any restriction. Exports of currency exceeding that amount are permitted through bank transfers. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs ARMENIA 45 Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health are required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pesticides. Im- ports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require special authoriza- tion from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero and 10%; most imports are zero rated. Products imported from countries in the CIS are exempted. Tariffs for a few agricultural products, textiles, and vehicles are zero, while a 10% tariff applies for a variety of new materials and manufactured products. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements At present, there is no repatriation requirement; however, the CBA has the power, as specified by legislation, to impose such requirements on foreign exchange proceeds. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export licenses are required for medicines, wild animals and plants, and textile products exported to the EU. In addition, special government permission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuclear products, and technology with direct military applications. M in imum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign-produced goods therefrom remain in force. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Except for purchases of real estate in Armenia by nonresidents, there are no controls on capital transactions. However, the CBA reserves the right to impose controls if necessary. New controls are announced a month in advance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 ARMENIA Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents No. No. No. No. No. In accordance with the constitution, nonresidents are not allowed to acquire land in Armenia. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements An 8% reserve requirement in local currency applies against deposits in either foreign or domestic currency. The reserve requirement is remunerated at an interest rate of 10% a year. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits of 25% and 5% apply to the overall foreign exchange position in convertible and nonconvertible currencies, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Aruba is the Aruban florin. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The florin is pegged to the dollar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.002795% on either side of parity. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Certain institutions are exempted from this commission. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control n.a. n.a. No. The CBA administers foreign exchange control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 Held abroad ARUBA The opening of an account abroad must be reported to the CBA. Approval is not required; however, resident holders of accounts abroad must apply with the CBA for an exemption from provisions regarding the collection of foreign claims. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are fully convertible. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of eggs may be subject to quotas, depending on the domestic supply situation. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days or credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been reported to the CBA. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most restrictions on these transactions have been eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 49 Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments on all types of loans may be effected if a license has been obtained from the CBA to conclude the loan. As regards profits and dividends, documents should be submitted to the CBA with respect to the amount involved. In the case of depreciation of direct investments, a special license is required if the amount of the transaction exceeds the authorized ceiling. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days or credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign ex- change bank or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been reported to the CBA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Transactions of less than Af. 200,000 a year for natural persons and Af. 500,000 a year for juridical persons (excluding commercial banks and institutional investors) may be carried out freely. These ceilings are applicable to investments as well as to all capital transactions with nonresidents, including loans. This implies that a CBA license is only required for capital transactions that exceed these ceilings. Yes. There are controls on all these transactions and a CBA license is required for transactions that exceed the indicated ceilings. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all these transactions. Controls on direct investment There are controls on all transactions of this nature. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment The CBA may require divestment, repatriation, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Yes. Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all transactions of this nature. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Personal capital transactions must be effected through the banking system. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 ARUBA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits are 40% of the first Af. 10 million of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the second Af. 10 million; and 60% of the remaining liabilities. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other countries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market-determined. Licensed foreign ex- change dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency with regard to trade- and non-trade-related transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA publishes an indicative rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and futures contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Residents may purchase foreign currency from a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the seller is not in the business of dealing in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is deal- ing on the seller's own account. Otherwise, residents may purchase foreign currency only from a licensed dealer. Australia participates in PACER. The RBA has responsibility for oversight of the foreign exchange market, including the authorization of foreign exchange dealers. Effective March 11, 2002, the Australian Securi- ties and Investment Commission (ASIC) is responsible for the licensing of all financial service providers, including foreign exchange dealers that deal in foreign currency transac- tions unless the transactions are settled immediately or in the case of persons dealing on their own accounts. Financial restrictions apply to certain transactions, accounts, and assets relating to Iraq; Libya; the UNITA movement in Angola; certain persons associated with the former gov- ernment of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; the Taliban; and, effective October 3, 2001, organizations, individuals, and other entities identified as terrorists or as sponsors of terrorism. Until October 17, 2001, when they were lifted, restrictions also applied to transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and its agencies. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1373, effective October 15, 2001, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is empowered to maintain a list of suspected persons, entities, 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 AUSTRALIA Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency and assets connected with terrorism (the list was augmented on October 17, 2001; Novem- ber 9, 2001; December 21, 2001; and March 20, 2002). Dealing with the funds or other assets of the listed individuals or groups, or making funds or assets available to them, is prohibited, and any funds in connection with listed individuals or groups must be frozen. No. No. Exportation or importation of notes and coins totaling more than $A 10,000 in domestic or foreign currency must be reported to the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC). Residents may purchase foreign currency only from a licensed dealer. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency they brought into Australia. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Local purchases and sales of foreign currency may be made from a person who is not li- censed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the seller is not in the business of dealing in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on the seller's own account. Otherwise, foreign currency may be purchased from or sold to a licensed dealer only. Yes. Yes. Conversion may be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the seller is not in the business of dealing in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on the seller's own account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Local purchases and sales of foreign currency may be made through a licensed dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the seller is not in the business of dealing in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on the seller's own account. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Conversion must be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the seller is not in the business of dealing in for- eign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on the seller's own account. Only those accounts affected by international security restrictions or UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 53 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota that applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weapons; certain chemicals and primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifica- tions; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Australia's membership in international commodity agreements. General tariffs have been reduced to 5%. The tariff on passenger motor vehicles is 15% and it will remain at this level until January 1, 2005. Textiles, clothing, and footwear are subject to tariffs ranging from zero to 25%. The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods between Australia and New Zealand. The SPARTECA provides the Forum Island countries with nonreciprocal, duty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Aus- tralia is covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Developing countries receive tariff preferences on exports to Australia under the Australian System of Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries, with a uniform preferential margin of 5%. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of certain industries such as textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and fruit preparations, tuna, and sugar, except from the least-developed countries and South Pacific Island Territories. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control, admin- ister trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These pro- hibitions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense materials; regulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual civilian and military applications; maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and respond to specific market distortions abroad. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. Export controls apply to uranium and related nuclear materials (including uranium-bearing sands) to ensure compliance with Australia's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restric- tions also apply to certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unprocessed wood, including wood chips. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provi- sions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply. Exports of cattle, sheep or goat meat, and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Commonwealth Department of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry (AFFA). If other countries impose quantitative restrictions on imports of meat or livestock, the AFFA may, in conjunction with industry, introduce measures to control Australian exports to conform with those restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 AUSTRALIA With quotas Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Australia has a complete ban on the export of merino ewes, genetic material, ova, and em- bryos to any country other than New Zealand. However, merino breeding rams purchased at designated export auctions and semen from rams included in the National Register of Semen Export Donors may be exported. Sales are subject to an annual quota (currently limited in total to 800 rams a year, and there is a provision for up to 100 rams to be placed on a semen donor register) and the AFFA's approval. No ram sold and nominated for the collection of semen for export may be physically exported. There is no restriction on the export of merino rams or reproductive material to New Zealand. The above restrictions do not apply to merino rams intended for slaughter; however, the export of these rams is subject to controls to ensure they do not enter breeding stocks. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, which may be affected by laws and policies on inward direct investment, may require notification to the Australian authorities. Foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authorities of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Sub- ject to certain disclosure requirements, overseas banks may issue securities in the wholesale capital market in amounts of $A 500,000 or more. Effective March 11, 2002, dealers in financial products (including securities, derivatives, and foreign exchange contracts) re- quire a financial service provider's license from the ASIC. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments All foreign exchange transactions within Australia may be effected only through a licensed financial service provider. However, this is not necessary if the transaction is settled imme- diately or in cases where persons are dealing on their own accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 55 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Prior authorization is required for (1) acquisitions by foreign investors of a substantial in- terest in an Australian business with total assets of more than $A 50 million or where the proposal values the business over that amount (a substantial interest is seen as one that would result in the shareholding of 15% or more by a single foreign interest or association or 40% or more by two or more unrelated foreign interests in an Australian corporation); (2) all investments in the banking, civil aviation, airports, shipping, media, telecommunica- tion, and real estate sectors, including those below the $A 50 million threshold, which are subject to special restrictions; (3) direct investments by foreign governments or their agen- cies irrespective of size; and (4) proposals to establish new businesses where the total amount of the investment is $A 10 million or more. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All acquisitions of residential real estate, including vacant land, must be notified, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate for develop- ment are normally approved, as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. Acquisition of developed nonresidential commercial real estate is exempt if the total value of the property is less than $A 50 million and if the property is not subject to heritage listing. If the property is subject to heritage listing, the total value of the property may not exceed $A 5 million. Approval is also usually granted for acquisitions of vacant land for development, subject to certain conditions, and for acquisitions of dwellings (including condominiums) direct from a developer, either "off the plan," while under construction, or completed but never occu- pied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwellings are sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are normally approved only in cases involving temporary residents who acquire the property as their principal place of residence for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon depar- ture. Foreign persons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia or those who pur- chase as joint tenants with an Australian spouse are not required to seek approval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate (including condominiums) within a designated integrated tourist resort is exempt from authorization. Sale locally by nonresidents The sale of Australian real estate by residents or nonresidents is subject to the above conditions. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The transfer may be subject to approval of the authorities in cases where the gift involves a foreign person attaining an interest in Australian urban land. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to prudential requirements, e.g., liquidity management, credit concentration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 AUSTRALIA Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Prior approval from the Treasurer is required for any person or group—domestic or foreign —to acquire a 15% or larger share in a financial sector company, including authorized deposit-taking institutions and any nonoperating holding company for these institutions in Australia. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require that, to be a participating organization of the Australian Stock Exchange, a majority of the directors of a brokerage must be Aus- tralian residents. This rule does not prohibit foreigners from owning a brokerage. Deposit-taking institutions and pension funds are supervised by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, an entity separate from the RBA. Arrangements for payments and receipts Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2001 October 3. Financial restrictions were imposed on transactions with and the accounts and assets of individuals and entities identified as terrorists or sponsors of terrorism. Additional specifics were added on October 12, November 9, and December 21. October 15. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1373, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was empowered to maintain a list of suspected persons, entities, and assets connected with terrorism. Dealing with the funds or other assets of the listed individuals or groups, or making funds or assets available to them, was prohibited, and any funds in con- nection with listed individuals or groups were required to be frozen. October 17. Restrictions on financial transactions with the authorities of the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia and its agencies were lifted. Restrictions remain, however, on transactions involving certain persons associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Changes During 2002 March 11. The Financial Services Reform Act came into effect, establishing a single licens- ing regime within ASIC for all financial market activity. Providers of financial services, including dealers and advisers in securities, derivatives, and foreign exchange contracts, now require a financial service provider's license from the ASIC. March 20. Additional names of individuals and entities associated with terrorism that are subject to financial restrictions were released. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Austria is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Austrian schilling remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and Febru- ary 28, 2002, both the schilling and the euro circulated. The euro became the sole legal tender on March 1, 2002. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Austria participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the schilling was set at S 13.7603 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free euro accounts. There are no bilateral payment agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, which include provisions on transfers between the signatories. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq are in force. EU restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers to specifically targeted persons associated with Liberia or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In addition, restrictions apply to payments and transfers to Angola, Myanmar, the Taliban, and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 AUSTRIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These are accounts affected by UN sanctions against Angola, Iraq, Myanmar, and the Taliban and, by virtue of EU regulations, sanctions against certain individual citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regulations based on the com- mon commercial policy, i.e., import restrictions for industrial products in the textile and clothing sectors and statistical surveillance for products falling under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regulations based on current EU law with regard to China for imports of some consumer products. Positive list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Austria applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Licenses for exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry, or at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 59 trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Yes. Capital Transactions In some cases, reporting requirements to the Austrian National Bank exist. No. No. In the auditing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Austrian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Liquid asset requirements Liquid asset requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Open foreign exchange position limits The net amount of an open foreign exchange position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. The euro is not considered a foreign currency. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 AUSTRIA Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the schilling could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan manat. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the manat is determined as a weighted average of the telephone, auc- tion, and interbank markets. The open interbank exchange market has the dominant weight. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU are effected through correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these countries or through correspondent accounts of the respective central banks. In accordance with current legislation, settlements among residents may be effected in foreign currencies only with a license issued by the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB). Yes. Azerbaijan is a member of the Payment Union of the CIS countries, which has become inoperative. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency operations, and administers official gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open for- eign exchange accounts abroad; for regulating foreign exchange operations, including im- plementing and monitoring compliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. The Ministry of Trade regulates foreign trade, while the Customs Code regulates the organization and operation of customs. No. n.a. Controls are administered by the cabinet of ministries jointly with the ANB. Controls on external trade A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation and importation of foreign banknotes are regulated by the ANB and the customs agencies. Banks may import and export foreign banknotes only with a license issued by the ANB. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 AZERBAIJAN On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports No more than manat 50,000 in banknotes may be taken out of the country, on the condition that they be returned. Residents are allowed to export the amount of currency they brought in plus $10,000, or the equivalent, without any documentation. Nonresidents are allowed to export the amount they brought in plus $1,000, or the equivalent, without any documentation. Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No declaration of the origin of foreign exchange is required for individuals, who may transfer freely foreign exchange held in these accounts to their close relatives up to the equivalent of $10,000 and, upon authorization, larger amounts, or may convert it freely into domestic currency. Resident enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad, subject to authorization by the ANB. Enterprises are obliged to repatriate the foreign ex- change held in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). There is no regulation for individuals who open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad. Yes. n.a. Natural and juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks, and authorized banks may also purchase foreign exchange in these markets on their own account, in accordance with the regulations of the ANB. These regulations do not set any limit. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manat. Prior to opening an account, a nonresident entity must provide proof —issued by the Ministry of Justice—of its legal status. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manat and use them for domestic transactions, in accordance with instructions issued by the ANB. Convertible into foreign currency The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. Yes. Advance import payments of more than 180 days prior to the delivery of goods are not allowed. Prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are limited to the equivalent of $10,000. Subject to authorization of the ANB, this amount may exceed the indicative limit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 63 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Prepayments by bank transfers in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent require either an LC or the authorization of the ANB. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs are unified at 15% for most goods and for imports from all countries. Some capital and input goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%. Tariff bands of 3% and 10% were introduced, increasing the number of bands from three to five, and the range of goods in the zero rate band was widened. Effective April 15, 2001, a new tariff code introduced a 0.5% tariff rate on goods that were previously exempt from tariffs, as well as specific tariffs on underinvoiced goods. At the same time, all ad hoc tariff exemptions were eliminated. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports within 180 days and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan within 10 days of receipt, unless specifically ex- empted by the government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to eco- nomic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All export operations must be secured by a 100% prepayment or an irrevocable LC. Yes. Effective April 1,2001, exports of scrap metal were prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Resident individuals are allowed to purchase noncash foreign exchange for transfer abroad to meet the costs of bona fide current international transactions. Any amount may be paid without limitation, on the basis of documents confirming that trade-related costs actually have been incurred. General limitations apply to advance payments. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test The indicative limit is the equivalent of $10,000. This limit may be exceeded on the basis of an expense estimate. The limit is the equivalent of $10,000 for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and family maintenance and alimony. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 AZERBAIJAN Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Indicative limits/bona ftde test Yes. The indicative limit for subscriptions and membership fees varies from $1,000 to $5,000, or the equivalents, a year. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds received by residents must be repatriated within six months and transferred to a licensed bank within 10 days of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls, except for banks that sell their shares to nonresidents within the quota specified by the ANB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents This process is regulated by the government in coordination with the ANB by establishing quotas and trading authorization procedures. Purchase abroad by residents The transfer of funds is permitted with the approval of the ANB. Sale or issue abroad by residents These operations are regulated by the laws on joint-stock companies, securities, and stock exchanges, and by in-house instruction of the ANB. Sales are effected mainly by prior sub- scription; an organized market is just emerging. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments are not currently available, and legislation concerning derivatives has not been formulated. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to authorization by the ANB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 65 Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires ANB authorization. Profits may be reinvested in local currency held in Azerbaijan or converted into foreign currency and transferred without controls. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30% are entitled to a two-year holiday on profit taxes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted, but a court ruling is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Subject to presentation of satisfactory documents and based on a court ruling. Transfer abroad by emigrants Subject to authorization by the ANB. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Subject to authorization by the ANB. Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements There is a 10% reserve requirement on deposit accounts. Liquid asset requirements Liquid assets must be equal to at least 30% of total liabilities. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations There is a 10% reserve requirement on deposit accounts. Loans granted to a nonresident may only be used domestically. The Law on Banks and Banking grants the ANB the right to set quotas for participation in banks' equity capital by foreign investors. This same law establishes regulations governing the investment of funds in shares of other banks, nonbank enterprises, institutions, and organizations. In banks by nonresidents Subject to authorization by the ANB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 AZERBAIJAN Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The regulations and procedures governing participation by nonresidents in the securities market are determined in accordance with the Azerbaijan Republic Law on Securities and by the Committee on Securities under the president of Azerbaijan. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad n.r. Other controls imposed by securities laws In accordance with the Azerbaijan Republic Law on Securities, the circulation of securities of foreign issuers in Azerbaijan is regulated by the Committee on Securities. Securities of issuers registered in Azerbaijan may be placed outside Azerbaijan with the authorization of that same body. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments April 75. A new tariff code introduced a 0.5% tariff rate on goods that were previously exempt from tariffs, as well as specific tariffs on underinvoiced goods. At the same time, all ad hoc tariff exemptions were eliminated. Exports and export proceeds April 1. Exports of scrap metal were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 and silver coins denominated B$10 and B$25 are legal tender but do not circulate. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. In addition to the official exchange market, there is a market in which investment currency may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank of The Bahamas (CBB); the current premium bid and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct investments outside The Bahamas. In certain circumstances, the CBB may also per- mit residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such outward investments. The Bahamian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at par. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5% above the buying rate. The CBB deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50% buying and 0.75% selling per US$1, and 0.50% buying or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to all outward remittances. No. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, how- ever, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements with- out the CBB's permission. Authorized dealers may deal forward in foreign currency with nonresidents without prior approval from the CBB. Commercial banks may execute for- ward deals among themselves at market rates but they must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign ter- ritories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Foreign currency is defined as all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. The Bahamas is a member of the CARICOM, but it does not participate in the common market. Exchange control is administered by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 THE BAHAMAS International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports payments for imports up to B$ 100,000; approval authority for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands. No. No. Residents, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the CBB, meet their current industrial requirements. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a li- cense and are duty free, although a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax payable to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. A traveler may export banknotes up to a total of B$200. Bahamian travelers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. Domestic currency Importation is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. With the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denomi- nated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. Foreign nationals who have been granted tem- porary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but in- come on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval of the CBB. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The accounts of residents emigrating from The Bahamas who are redesignated upon de- parture as nonresidents are blocked for amounts in excess of B$25,000 for a period of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 69 four years. Balances on blocked accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after that time or through the Investment Currency Market at any time; they may also be invested with the approval of the CBB in certain resident-held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for imports exceeding B$ 100,000, irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health reasons. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. All other goods may be imported without a license. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tariff rate on most goods is 42%, and the aver- age tariff rate is 35%. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no import duty on certain tourist-related goods, but these goods are subject to stamp duties ranging from 8% to 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, ex- port proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are not required, except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on current payments. However, there are limits on the approval authority delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may make pay- ments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life insurance premiums, within specified limits. CBB approval is required for payments in excess of those limits or for categories of payments not delegated. For unloading and storage costs and commissions, CBB approval is required for transactions over B$3,000 and B$6,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 THE BAHAMAS Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Information is not available for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer. Yes. The limits for tourist travel are B$ 1,000 a person above the age of 18 years a trip and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a trip. For business or professional travel, the limit is B$ 10,000 a person a year. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which is normally paid in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of returning to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Residents are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance of B$3,000 a person a trip for education-related costs. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an unlimited education allowance is granted by the CBB. In addition to a B$ 1,000 cash allowance, authorized dealers may approve medical payments to doctors or medical establishments. Yes. The limit is 50% of wages and salaries. If commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. Approval is required for residents to hold an international credit card, which may not be used to pay for life insurance premiums and capital items. Prior approval is required for payments of consulting and legal fees. The limit for subscription and membership fees is B$ 1,000, and that for consulting and legal fees is B$3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test An indicative limit is applied to consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect all proceeds without delay. Surrender requirements All foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents THE BAHAMAS 71 All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident- owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, which are encouraged, are required to go through the exchange control approval process, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals generally reflects the government's economic and investment policy guidelines. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment cur- rency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the CBB and are normally effected through authorized agents, who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions without any further approval from the CBB. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by, or to the order of, an authorized agent. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities that were registered at the CBB prior to December 31,1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian dollar-denominated securities must fund the acquisition of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. A resident company wholly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Bahamian dollars, although approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency bor- rowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to residents' interest in the eq- uity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permis- sion to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled directly or indirectly by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from resi- dents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign currency, and foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 THE BAHAMAS upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet specifically authorized payments to nonresidents. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30% of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to individual approval from the CBB; by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market; or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward direct investment CBB approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents require the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and ap- proval is limited to one property a family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the offi- cial foreign exchange market. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit from the Investments Board. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase property for resi- dential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Investments Board on completion of the transaction. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 73 Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Residents are not allowed to remit funds for gaming purposes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Prior exchange control approval is required if local real estate is offered as a security. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is B$500,000 for a long or short position. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. No. Other controls imposed by securities laws In the securities market, a Mutual Funds Act and a regulation that provides for licensing of mutual funds administrators and the registration of mutual funds are enforced. The Securi- ties Industry Act authorizes the Securities Commission to regulate the stock exchange and stock exchange operations. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kingdom of Bahrain is the Bahrain dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Effective December 25, 2001, the peg to the SDR was replaced with a peg to the dollar at a rate of BD 1 per $2.659. Prior to that date, the dinar had a fixed relationship to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.47619 per SDR 1 and the exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR could be set within margins of ±7.25% of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the dinar maintained a stable relationship with the dollar, the intervention currency. The Bah- rain Monetary Agency (BMA) provides daily recommended rates to banks for amounts up to BD 1,000 in dollars. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for dollars. The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's dollar rates and the New York market rates against the dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of banks' monthly returns. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. No. There is no exchange control legislation. On January 19, 2002, the authorities of the Kingdom of Bahrain notified the IMF that (1) the BMA had imposed measures on the financing of terrorists and terrorism and the freezing of assets of certain individuals and organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1333 and 1373, and (2) the BMA had required all licensed banks to ensure diligence in examining their financial dealings with a list of persons and organizations (as of that date, the list comprised 39 entries). Yes. No. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 5% customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Bro- kers doing business in gold and other products must obtain BMA approval before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The Directorate General of Customs maintains a registry regarding information on curren- cies imported and their importers. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 75 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs If such documents are not available, imported goods may be released with a written prom- ise to submit the documents at a later date. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in the Kingdom of Bahrain and member countries of the GCC, provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bahrain and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. The rates of customs duties are 5% for foodstuffs and nonluxury items, electrical ap- pliances, and motor vehicles; 125% for alcoholic beverages; and 100% for tobacco and tobacco products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses All exports to Israel are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles from Israel are prohibited. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but transactions in money market instruments are controlled in accordance with the provisions of Amiri Decree No. 4/2000 regarding the prevention and prohibition of money laundering. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Subject to Amiri Decree No. 10/1999, GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% and non-GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 49% of the listed shares of a Bahraini joint- stock company. The percentage ownership of non-GCC nationals may be increased, subject to approval from the Minister of Commerce and Industry. However, non-GCC nationals may purchase, sell, or own up to 100% of the shares of the following seven companies: the Arab Banking Corporation, the Bahrain International Bank, Investcorp Bank, the Bah- rain Middle East Bank, Taib Bank, Shamil Islamic Bank, and the Arab Insurance Group. Purchases, sales, and ownership of shares are subject to the requirements of anti-money laundering regulations. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Although residency in Bahrain is not required, local sales and issues by nonresidents are subject to BMA regulations, the Bahraini Commercial Companies Law, the Bahraini Stock Exchange (BSE) Law, and the law on prevention and prohibition of money laundering. Purchases of listed shares must be effected either on the trading floor of the stock ex- change, as stipulated by the BSE Law, or abroad, subject to cross-listing or linkage re- quirements with foreign stock exchanges. Issues of the shares of Bahraini companies abroad must be effected in accordance with the Bahraini Commercial Company Law and with BSE approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance of bonds and other debt securities is subject to the Commercial Companies Law. Sales of listed bonds and other debt securities are subject to the BSE Law. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue locally of shares or other securities of a participating nature by residents apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the purchase abroad of shares or other securities of a participating nature by residents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 77 Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investments are regulated in accordance with the Commercial Companies Law, BMA regulations, the BSE Law (subject to the field of investment), and the anti-money laundering law. GCC nationals are allowed to own 100% of the shares of domestic enterprises, and non- GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% of offshore, closed joint-stock, and limited liability companies; and 49% in other companies, with the exception of a few strategic sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance with Legislative Decree 40/1999, there are no restrictions on ownership of real estate by GCC nationals (either natural or juridical persons). The ownership of real estate by nonresidents is regulated by Legislative Decree 2/2001. Nonresidents (both natural and juridical persons) are allowed to own buildings and property only in locations specified in the Council of Ministers Regulation 5/2001, which include most of the prestigious and tourist areas. In accordance with Legislative Decree 2/2001, commercial, tourism, and industrial companies, as well as banking and financial institu- tions, that are licensed to operate in Bahrain may own real estate without restriction. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits without exchange control restrictions. Licensed offshore banking units may en- gage freely in transactions with nonresidents, although transactions with residents are not normally permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are allowed to set their own individual limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Exchange arrangement December 25. The BMA announced the change in the pegging arrangement from the SDR to the dollar. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2002 January 19. The authorities of the Kingdom of Bahrain notified the IMF that (1) the BMA had imposed measures on the financing of terrorists and terrorism and the freezing of assets of certain individuals and organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1333 and 1373, and (2) the BMA had required all licensed banks to ensure diligence in examin- ing their financial dealings with a list of persons and organizations (as of that date, the list comprised 39 entries). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 11, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Bangladesh Bank (BB) announces a buying-selling rate band for the dollar against the taka for its transactions with authorized dealer (AD) banks. Trends of the real effective exchange rate of the taka against a trade-weighted basket of currencies of major trade part- ners, as well as of other major external and internal sector indicators, are analyzed to moni- tor the external competitiveness of the exchange rate. ADs set their own buying and selling rates for the dollar and other currencies, based on cross rates in international markets. No. No. ADs may buy and sell foreign-currency forwards freely in accordance with internationally established practices. Authorized banks are permitted to retain working balances with for- eign correspondent banks. Currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permit- ted when they are effected against underlying approved commercial transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BB does not deal in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, through non- resident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries must be effected through the ACU and in units denominated in AMU (equivalent in value to the dollar). Payments for imports may be made to any country (with the exception of countries from which im- ports are prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresi- dent bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely con- vertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative There is an operative bilateral payments arrangement with Myanmar. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Bangladesh is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the BB in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the MOF. Licenses are issued to banks as ADs in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Reg- istered importers may make their imports in terms of the IPO against LCs. LC authorization forms (LCAFs) are issued by ADs and do not require a separate import license. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 79 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions On January 11, 2002, the Bangladesh authorities notified the IMF that banks and other financial institutions had been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. On the basis of a UN Security Council resolution, all settlements with the Taliban, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as well as imports of diamonds from Sierra Leone, are prohibited. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. The importation and exportation of gold and silver require special permission. However, adult female travelers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and silver for the export/manufacture of jewelry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. A resident or a nonresident may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry or up to the equivalent of $5,000 brought in without declaration. Foreign tourists may reconvert unspent taka funds at ADs upon production of documentary evidence that the taka were acquired through a conversion of foreign exchange that had been brought into the country. Residents may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to the equivalent of $5,000 brought in without declaration when returning from a previous visit abroad. The importation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to the equivalent of $5,000, but larger amounts should be declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001), dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account hol- ders, provided that amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without restriction but are subject to reporting to the BB. Residents returning from abroad may bring in any amount of foreign currency and may maintain a resident foreign currency deposit account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BANGLADESH arising from business deals in Bangladesh may not be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in deutsche mark (through January 31, 2001), dol- lars, euros, pounds sterling, and Japanese yen. Local and joint-venture contracting firms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplo- matic missions in Bangladesh, their expatriates, the UN and its agencies, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Foreign currency accounts may be opened in the name of resident Bangladesh nationals working for foreign or international organizations operating in Bangladesh if their salary is paid in foreign currency. Exporters are permitted to open Exporters' Retention Quota accounts against a certain percentage of the repatriated export proceeds. Residents who opened an account abroad when residing abroad may maintain it after returning to Bangladesh. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Bangladesh nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial institutions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government institutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001), dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited in initial minimum amounts equivalent to $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in con- vertible currencies and transfers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts main- tained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The accounts bear interest if their terms range from one month to one year. Bangladesh nationals may maintain a foreign currency account abroad while residing abroad and may continue to hold the account after returning to Bang- ladesh. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to the BB. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a nonresi- dent foreign currency deposit account with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. All nonresident accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident (the accounts of the UN and its agencies are treated as resident accounts). Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be opened by ADs without prior approval from the BB for Bangladesh nationals and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account holder's absence by ADs without prior approval from the BB. Certain other debits and credits may be made without prior approval from the BB, but are subject to ex post reporting. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign airline and shipping companies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest- bearing accounts, but the interest earned may be disbursed only in local currency. For port- folio investments in Bangladesh, a nonresident may open a Nonresident Investors' Taka Account with any AD with foreign exchange remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or through transfer of funds from a foreign currency account. These accounts may be used to effect all approved current transactions. Convertible into foreign currency All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, international nonprofit organizations (including charitable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 81 organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil com- panies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, and UN organizations and other international organizations are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Private, nonresident taka accounts may also be credited with proceeds from dividends, interest income from shares and securities, income from landed property, agricultural rent, and house rent. These accounts, however, may be used only for domestic payments, are not convertible, and may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely permitted. Blocked accounts Nonresident taka accounts may be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Effective May 23, 2001, a 50% margin requirement for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and 56 other items is imposed. Effective November 13, 2001, the margin for rice has been increased to 100% from 50%, but this requirement has subsequently been relaxed. Advance payments for up to the value of $2,500 may be made for certain imports. The BB allows other advance payments covering imports of specialized or capital goods, usually against a guarantee from a first-class overseas bank. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required for all imports, with a few exceptions. Letters of credit Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable LCs. However, a consignment of perishable food items not exceeding $7,500 or its equivalent in value may be imported overland without LCs; capital machinery and industrial raw materi- als may also be imported without LCs. Recognized export-oriented units operating under the bonded warehouse system may import up to four months' requirements of their raw and packing materials by establishing import LCs without reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (either on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or up to 180 days on a usance basis) against export LCs received by them. ADs may establish LCs on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of the BB, subject to certain conditions. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by ADs when payments are due. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list All importers (including all government departments, with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain LCAFs for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs that are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except for imports from Israel and imports transported on Israeli flag vessels, which are prohibited. Goods must be shipped within 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts, and 12 months in the case of all other items. Items not specified in the control list of the IPO may be imported freely, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The control list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited for public safety, religious, environmental, and social reasons, or if similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes (7 of which are banned and 19 restricted). Effective January 2, 2002, exports of polybags were banned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BANGLADESH Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs All items not on the control list may be imported freely by registered importers. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment (BOI). Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that may be imported freely but ap- plies to items appearing on the control list. Separate LCAFs may be issued to industrial consumers of machinery parts and accessories. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or trans- ferred without prior approval. There are five tariff bands: zero, 5%, 15%, 25%, and 37.5%. On August 13, 2001, regula- tory duties, import license fees, and infrastructure development charges were imposed on a large number of goods. Effective December 23, 2001, 30 additional items are subject to these charges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses With quotas Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment unless otherwise permitted by the BB. Exporters are required to surrender to ADs 92.5% of the proceeds from exports of ready-made garments and 60% of the proceeds from exports of other goods; they may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad; establishment and maintenance of offices abroad; participation in trade fairs and seminars; and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. Joint ventures, other than in the garment industry, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 80% of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and to place the remaining 20% in a bank account in domestic currency. No. Yes. Yes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, while others are restricted to ensure the supply in the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all restricted items. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports imposes quotas on garment exports on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use to reallocate unfilled quotas. Export taxes Exports of jute are taxed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Trade-related payments There are controls on administrative expenses and commissions. Prior approval Investment-related payments Payments for unloading and storage services require prior approval. Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad for commissions with- out prior approval from the BB. ADs are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders without prior approval from the BB upon the receipt of applications from the companies concerned. Applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet; a profit-and-loss account; and a board ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 83 resolution declaring dividends from profits earned from foreign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh to their head office. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. Prior approval No approval is required if loan agreements have been cleared by the BOI. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhu- tan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a person a year or its equivalent; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $1,000. For new ex- porters, the indicative limit for business travel is $6,000 a person a year or its equivalent, while established exporters are permitted to use balances held under the Export Retention Scheme (7.5% of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manufacturers producing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equivalent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the value of imports, respectively. There is an annual ceiling of $5,000 or its equivalent in both cases. Amounts in excess of these limits require documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transaction. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign exchange for education is available up to the cost of tuition and living expenses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. Prior permission is not required for the remittance of fees for approved undergraduate, postgraduate, and professional courses. Foreign exchange is available for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a cer- tificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level that is based on prevailing prices. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions. Up to $10,000 or its equivalent may be obtained for medical expenses without prior approval. Larger amounts may be obtained with approval of the BB after submission of documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transactions. Applications for foreign exchange for studies abroad and for family maintenance are approved upon verification of their bona fide nature. Foreign nationals may remit freely up to 50% of net salary in connection with service contracts approved by the government. The entire amount of their earned leave pay and savings may also be freely remitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Yes. Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test General approval is given for credit card use by exporters against the foreign exchange retention entitlement and for use by other residents against the travel allowance. Credit cards may be used up to the amounts authorized for travel allowances and up to balances held in retention quota accounts. Prior permission is not required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales by firms that are registered with the BOI. Remittances in excess of this limit require BOI approval. Industrial enterprises producing for local markets may remit up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the previous year's tax return for the purpose of training and consultancy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 BANGLADESH Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters of services are required to surrender to ADs 95% of the proceeds (60% in the case of proceeds from computer services) and may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bang- ladesh or abroad, to an AD within one month of the date of acquisition. However, returning residents may keep, in foreign currency accounts opened in their names, foreign exchange brought in at the time of return from abroad, provided that the amount does not represent proceeds from exports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangladesh. Residents may retain up to $5,000 or its equivalent brought into the country without declaration. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender within one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings with respect to business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh. Restrictions on use of funds Retained foreign exchange may be used for travel abroad or bona fide business purposes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may buy Bangladesh securities through stock exchanges against payment in freely convertible currency remitted from abroad through banking channels. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from sales, including capital gains and dividends earned on securities purchased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Nonresidents may not issue securities in Bangladesh. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commis- sion. If an instrument is denominated in foreign currency, prior BB approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 85 Purchase abroad by residents ADs may obtain hedging abroad against exchange rate risks on underlying trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Export payments deferred for more than 120 days require BB authorization. To residents from nonresidents Deferred import payments are permitted for up to 360 days for equipment and machinery and for up to 180 days for industrial raw materials. Private industrial units may borrow funds from abroad with the approval of the BOI. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in specific cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. To residents from nonresidents ADs may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspon- dents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Banks may issue guarantees/sureties in favor of nonresidents in relation to permissible current transactions on behalf of residents. To residents from nonresidents Receipt of guarantees/sureties by residents from abroad requires fu ll disclosure of the underlying transaction. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All outward transfers of capital require approval. For resident-owned capital, approval is granted only in exceptional cases. Investments, except in the industrial sector, require approval. The Foreign Private Invest- ment (Promotion and Protection) Act provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationali- zation, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on the location. Requests for repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of direct investment (in unlisted companies) are subject to prior scrutiny of the BB. Effective February 1, 2001, proceeds from the disinvestment of nonresidents' equity investments in unlisted public limited com- panies and in private limited companies may be repatriated. When a nonresident liquidates investment through a sale to a resident investor, the net asset value of the shares of the company is used as the basis for calculating the repatriation of proceeds. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident with funds from abroad are allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Repatriation of sales proceeds are subject to prior approval by the BB, which is not normally granted. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are not allowed, except for borrowings by industrial enterprises in accordance with BOI guidelines and/or approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BANGLADESH Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfers of title to nonresidents by way of inheritances are not restricted, but income and sales proceeds from such assets are not normally transferable abroad and are required to be used locally with prior authorization from the BB. A resident Bangladesh national must obtain prior approval from the government to receive gifts or endowments from a foreign donor. Inheritances must be reported to the BB. Net current income from estates inherited abroad must be repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are normally not allowed, except for repayments on borrowing for industrial investments in accordance with BOI guidelines. Transfer of assets These transactions are not allowed, except for movable personal effects. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are not allowed, except for the normal travel allowances that are allowed to residents. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions are permitted, subject to a requirement that transfers exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited in Bangladesh. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The regulations governing financial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of these accounts is subject to notification to the BB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not allowed, except with prior BB approval and in specific cases. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Lending is subject to prior approval from the BB. ADs are permitted to use up to 50% of nonresident foreign currency deposit balances for (1) lending to exporters for settlement of back-to-back sight LCs imports of inputs, and (2) discounting usance bills of wholly foreign-owned (type "A") EPZ units against input supplies to exporters. Purchases are subject to prior approval from the BB. Banks are required to maintain interest rates on foreign currency deposits in line with inter- national market rates. Effective January 1, 2001, ADs may allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by their correspondent banks from other ACU member countries. Effective January 1, 2001, ADs are authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dol- lar accounts maintained with ADs by their correspondent banks of other ACU member countries. Open foreign exchange position limits In accordance with BB limits, authorized dealers' net open positions may not exceed 12.5% of their capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 87 Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments May 23. A 50% margin requirement was imposed for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and 56 other items. Capital transactions Controls on liquidation of direct investment August 13. Regulatory duties, import license fees, and infrastructure development charges were imposed on a large number of goods. November 13. The margin requirement for the opening of LCs against imports of rice was increased to 100% from 50%. December 23. The list of import items subject to additional regulatory duties was expanded to include 30 more items. February 1. Repatriation of proceeds from the disinvestment of nonresidents' equity in- vestments in unlisted public limited companies and in private limited companies was al- lowed. When a nonresident liquidates investment through a sale to a resident investor, the net asset value of the shares of the company is used as the basis for calculating the repatria- tion of proceeds. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. ADs were authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts main- tained with ADs by their correspondent banks of other ACU member countries. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 11. The Bangladesh authorities notified the IMF that banks and other financial institutions had been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of indi- viduals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and import payments January 2. Exports of polybags were banned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 3,1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados dollar. Gold coins with face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Barbados dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted on the basis of their cross-rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125% buying and 1.75% selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875% buying and 1.8125% selling against the Canadian dollar, euro, and pound sterling. Certain businesses are allowed to change foreign currency. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) periodically obtains forward cover in the interna- tional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central government's ex- change risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The CBB and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while com- mercial banks freely switch between nonregional currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of CARICOM countries other than Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM country. Settlements with residents of Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in U.S. dollars. CBB permission is re- quired for retail outlets to issue change in the same foreign currency in which purchases were made. Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the CBB currently sells only three CARICOM country currencies: the Bahamian dollar, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jamaica dollars float against the U.S. dollar, and the CBB sets indicative selling rates based on rates supplied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to government transactions. Exchange control applies to all countries, except those in the OECS, and is administered by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve normal import payments and foreign exchange for cash gifts. Further authority is delegated to commercial banks in respect of current account transactions ranging from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, Consumer 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 89 Affairs and Business Development (MCCABD). The authority to approve payments to OECS countries is delegated to ADs. No. No. Residents, other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and industrial users, are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an AD, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the MCCABD. Exchange control permission is required to export gold. Travelers may take out up to BDS$500. Travelers may take out up to the equivalent of BDS$ 1,000. Nonresident visitors may export freely any foreign currency they previously brought in. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Subject to specific conditions under delegated authority, ADs may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts in the names of individuals and companies resident in Barbados whose an- nual earnings are at least BDS$50,000 and BDS$ 100,000, respectively. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under conditions established at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. In cases where authority has not been delegated to ADs, the permission of the CBB is required. Approval is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Permission of the CBB is required. Permission of the CBB is required. Permission of the CBB is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other external accounts, with bank interest, and with payments by residents for which the CBB has given general or specific permission. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes and for any other payment covered by delegated authority to ADs. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Balances on external accounts are convertible. Nonresident holders of foreign currency accounts are not required to obtain central bank approval to remit funds abroad when the funds were not the result of payment for trade or nontrade transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 Blocked accounts BARBADOS The CBB may require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be with- drawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly ADs may release foreign exchange up to the equivalent of BDS$250,000 (c.i.f.) for ad- vance payments for imports into Barbados. Other advance payments require the prior approval of the CBB. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to ADs; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Certain imports require individual licenses. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while others are subject to temporary restrictions (par- ticularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago whether the goods are being im- ported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Not all goods that are subject to licensing are subject to quantitative restrictions or import surcharges. Customs duties corresponding to the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET are in the range of 5-20%. A VAT of 15% is levied. Tariffs ranging from 20% to over 200% apply to im- ports of prepared meats, detergents, and T-shirts. Chicken heads, backs, and necks; onions; and sugar may be imported only by the Barbados Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation, and milk may be imported only by the Pine Hill Dairy. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within six months. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an AD within six months, but exporters may apply for exemptions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. Yes. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 91 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the quantitative limits. For freight and insurance, the limit is BDS$250,000 a transaction, including insurance payments and premiums, as long as the amount is approved for payment by the Supervisor of Insurance. The same limit is applied for unloading and storage costs and administrative expenses; the limit for commissions is BDS$ 100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of amortization loans or depreciation of direct investments. Effective September 9, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad of dividends to nonresident beneficiaries in CARICOM countries. Yes. The limit for principal and interest payments is BDS$50,000 a year for individuals. Effec- tive September 1, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad of profits and dividends to residents of CARICOM member countries. For payments of profits and dividends to residents of non-CARICOM member countries, approval is required for amounts above BDS$250,000. The limit for listed companies from the CARICOM region on the securities exchange of Barbados is BDS$2 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are BDS$7,500 a person a calendar year for private travel, and BDS$750 a day for business travel, up to BDS$50,000 a person a calendar year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the limit. Effective April 1, 2001, payments for medical treatment and studies abroad require approval from a commercial bank based on appropriate documentation. Effective April 1, 2001, limits on payments for medical treatment and studies abroad were eliminated (previously, the limits were BDS$ 100,000 and BDS$50,000 a person a year, respectively). Other annual limits are BDS$5,000 a person a year for cash gifts and BDS$50,000 a year for alimony and other maintenance expenses. Nonresidents may have their pensions remitted to them while residing outside Barbados. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are allowed to remit amounts to cover commitments while employed in Barbados. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Effective September 1, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to approve all pay- ments abroad for entrance and subscription fees due to nonresident credit and travel card companies. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limits are the same as for travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits BARBADOS Effective September 1, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad for charges and fees with respect to granting and registration of patents, designs, and trademarks. Approval is required for amounts above the limit. The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is BDS$50,000 a person a year, and, for consulting and legal fees, BDS$ 100,000 for each nonresident beneficiary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to ADs. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Effective September 1, 2001, purchases and sales of shares and securities of compa- nies cross-listed and cross-traded on any CARICOM stock exchange—up to a limit of BDS$3 million a transaction—are allowed. This limit excludes any government securities cross-listed or cross-traded on those stock exchanges. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. These purchases require exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados except for regional securities purchased through the Securities Exchange of Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an AD. Sale or issue abroad by residents Exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply, Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for all credit operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 93 Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on direct investment Direct investments require exchange control approval. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Liquidation of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is submitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged, and the original investment was registered with the CBB. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated annual rate of return on the original foreign investment as follows: for the last five years, at 8%; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5%; and for any period preceding the last 10 years, at 4%. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to remittances of BDS$30,000 a year. Loans Exchange control permission is required for the granting or receiving of loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents The annual limit is BDS$5,000 for gifts and BDS$30,000 for endowments, inheritances, and legacies. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants The limit is BDS$ 100,000. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Nonresidents may take out winnings. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the CBB. ADs may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 BARBADOS Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts must be maintained with overseas correspondent banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Exchange control permission is required. Investment in local securities requires CBB approval. There is no reserve requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. For domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, there is an overall reserve requirement of 24%, with a cash reserve requirement of 5%. There is no liquidity requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. Effective July 18, 2001, for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, there is a liquid asset requirement of 24%, 11% of which must be placed in treasury bills, 8% in government debentures, and 5% in cash. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident deposit accounts are treated the same as resident deposit accounts. Differential treatment is based on whether the amount is in domestic currency. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits on working balances are set by the CBB. Those on other assets and liabilities are controlled through the Exchange Control Act. If a bank has a short position in forward transactions, it may maintain a long spot position equivalent to 20% of the short position in forward transactions or 15% of spot liabilities, whichever is higher. If a bank does not have a short position in forward transactions, it may maintain a long spot position equivalent to 15% of spot liabilities. Banks are to report weekly to the Foreign Exchange Control De- partment of the CBB. Approval is required for investment of pension funds abroad. A 6% tax is levied on portfo- lio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 2001 April L Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments abroad for education and medical treatment expenses. However, commercial banks must continue to report such transfers to the CBB. Previously, commercial banks could approve payments abroad for education and medical treatment expenses of up to BDS$50,000 and BDS$ 100,000, respectively. September L Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments abroad for charges and fees with respect to the granting and registration of patents, designs, and trademarks and were permitted to approve all payments abroad for entrance and subscription fees due to nonresident credit and travel card companies. September L Commercial banks were permitted to approve all payments abroad of divi- dends to nonresident beneficiaries in CARICOM countries. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions September L Purchases and sales of shares and securities of companies cross-listed and cross-traded on any CARICOM stock exchange, excluding government securities, were allowed, up to a limit of BDS$3 million a transaction. July 18. A liquid asset requirement of 24%—11% of which must be placed in treasury bills, 8% in government debentures, and 5% in cash—for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of June 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 5, 2001. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Crawling band Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belarus is the Belarusian rubel. Three exchange rates are in effect: the auction exchange rate, the interbank exchange rate, and the cash exchange rate. Effective January 1, 2001, the authorities announced the introduction of a crawling peg system against the Russian ruble, under which the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) adjusts the exchange rate at a monthly devaluation rate that is revised quarterly. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement of Belarus was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. An ex- change rate band of 1.5% around the central parity is currently maintained. Effective March 31, 2001, the daily limit of the equivalent of $300 on purchases of foreign exchange a person a day was removed. There are no limits on purchases of foreign exchange in the interbank market. Foreign currency above the mandatory surrender amount may be sold on the interbank market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. n.a. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same provisions as the spot market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements of transactions between residents and nonresidents are effected in freely con- vertible currencies. Settlements in other currencies and Belarusian rubels are effected if so provided for by intergovernmental agreements or arrangements between the central banks of both parties to the settlements. Settlements with nonresidents in rubels are also allowed regardless of the existence of an agreement, provided the nonresident has the appropriate rubel account at a bank in Belarus. In accordance with the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payment Union of Member Countries of the CIS and bilateral payment agreements between Belarus and the central banks of those countries, settlements between Belarus and CIS member countries are ef- fected in the national currencies of the parties involved in the settlements, in the currencies of the Payment Union Member Countries of the CIS, and in freely convertible currencies, in accordance with legislation in effect within the territory of the country. Settlements be- tween Belarus and CIS member countries and the Baltic countries are effected using non- cash procedures via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and central banks. In accordance with bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central banks of Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Moldova, Tajikistan, and Uzbeki- stan, only settlements for operations ensuing from the functions of central banks are ef- fected via correspondent accounts of central banks. Settlements for all other accounts are effected via correspondent accounts of authorized banks. In accordance with bilateral payment agreements between the NBB and the central bank of Estonia, settlements between economic agents may be effected both via correspondent accounts of authorized banks and via correspondent accounts of central banks. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 BELARUS Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Settlements between residents in foreign currency are prohibited, except in cases estab- lished by laws or the NBB. Belarus maintains bilateral trade and payments agreements with 14 countries, including the CIS countries. Yes. There are arrangements with Moscow and various other regions in Russia. An agreement with Uzbekistan provides for the exchange of cotton for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements with Moldova and Ukraine. The parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for administering them. The exchange control authorities are the Council of Ministers, the NBB, the State Control Committee, and the State Customs Committee. The exchange con- trol agents are banks, customs offices, ministries, associations, and other bodies of the state administration. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents require a license from the MOF to deal in precious stones and metals. Effective June 28, 2001, under NBB Board Resolution No. 175, banks require an NBB license to deal in precious metals and stones. Licenses for residents to export precious metals and stones are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of 100 times the Belarusian minimum wage. Resident and nonresident private persons may freely take out the equivalent of $1,500— amounts greater than this require documentary evidence certifying the origin of the funds. Traveler's checks in foreign currencies must be declared upon export. Exports of foreign exchange to states participating in the customs union are unlimited. The import of up to the equivalent of 100 times the Belarusian minimum wage is allowed. There are no limitations on the import of foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS Resident Accounts 97 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks authorized to transact in foreign exchange. Held abroad These accounts may be maintained abroad, but NBB approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are prohibited from opening domestic currency accounts abroad. Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign currency to (1) pay for imports of goods, labor, and services; (2) pay for business trip expenditures and training abroad; (3) repay credits and loans granted by authorized domestic banks or by nonresidents, including interest thereon; and (4) make a number of other transactions that have been approved by the NBB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical persons may maintain foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. The source of the funds may be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sales of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, including sales to residents; debt- service payments; interest earned on balances in the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments from the performance of other operations with residents and nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or ex- changed for Belarusian rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Approval from the central bank concerned is required to open accounts for nonresidents if this regulation is contained in the arrangement governing the settlements. Nonresident juridical persons may open I (investment), T (current), and C (investment in government securities) accounts at authorized commercial banks. I accounts may be cred- ited with the Belarusian rubel counterpart of foreign exchange sales, dividends, resources from the liquidation of enterprises, and compensation in the event of the nationalization of enterprises. Resources from I accounts may be used to purchase foreign currency, shares of enterprises, privatization checks, etc. T accounts are used for current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and of goods and services, and resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt obligations of banks, etc. are transferred into them. Resources from T accounts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expenditures. Effec- tive June 28, 2001, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency with Belarusian rubels from T accounts and correspondent accounts of nonresident banks opened at authorized domestic banks. Funds in C accounts are used for investments in securities issued by the Belarusian government and the NBB. Proceeds from the sale of freely convertible curren- cies and/or Russian rubles, as well as proceeds from the redemption or sale of government and NBB securities by nonresidents, are deposited in C accounts if the original purchases were made with payments from C accounts. Balances on I and C accounts may be converted into foreign currency. In this process, bal- ances on C accounts may be converted into foreign currency, provided that the nonresident was a holder of securities of the government or the NBB for a period of time established by the NBB. If this regulation is contained in the arrangements governing settlements between Belarus and the country concerned, approval from the central bank of the home country of the non- resident is required to open these accounts. Blocked accounts n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 BELARUS Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas For down payments for goods or services exceeding $100,000, a foreign bank guarantee is required. For payments for imported services more than 90 days in advance of the perform- ance of the services and for imported goods more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the goods, permission from the Ministry of Trade (MOT) is required; for advance payment of more than 180 days, NBB approval is required. Yes. Licenses are required for imports of the following goods: alcoholic products and ethyl al- cohol made from edible raw material (under quotas); malt liquor; raw and white sugar; starch syrup; plant-protecting chemicals; carpet products; industrial wastes; slag; tobacco products; and tires. There are prohibitions on importing production and consumption wastes that cannot be processed or used in Belarus and on printed matter, audiovisual materials, and other infor- mation media containing information that may harm Belarusian political or economic inter- ests, its state security, or the health and morals of its citizens. Quantitative restrictions are applied to raw cane sugar, alcohol products, and ethyl alcohol made from edible raw materials. Other nontariff measures Effective April 28, 2001, ceilings on the markup on imported goods were abolished. Import taxes and/or tariffs Belarus has abolished customs controls and customs processing of goods moving between Belarus and Russia. Efforts are under way to establish a uniform trade policy in relation to third countries. The tariff structure consists of higher rates that apply to goods such as weapons, ammunition, precious metal products, carpets, motor vehicles, alcohol, and cer- tain others. Regular (base) import duty rates apply to countries with MFN status. The pref- erential treatment given to goods from developing countries (duties that are 75% of the base rates) and from the least-developed countries with this status (goods from which are imported duty free) is applied to a certain list of goods imported onto the customs territory of Belarus. Duties are applied at twice the MFN rate on imports from countries without MFN status. Effective March 13, 2001, fees on foreign trade (barter transactions) were abolished. Indirect taxes (VAT and excise tax) are collected on imports from all countries except Turkmenistan, Georgia, and Russia. Excise taxes are collected on imports from all countries, with the exception of Russia. About 60% of tariff nomenclature has been unified between Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia and, to a lesser extent, between Belarus, the Kyr- gyz Republic, and Tajikistan. Under Presidential Decree No. 103 (of February 15, 2002), effective March 1, 2002, banks are exempt from customs duties and VAT on bank and measured ingots of precious metals for the performance of banking operations; other juridical persons are also exempt from customs duties and the VAT on ingots that are to be sold to banks. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports of goods and services produced by residents under commission con- tracts must be repatriated within a period of no more than 180 days, and foreign exchange proceeds from other exports of goods and services must be repatriated within 90 days of shipping. Special MOT approval is required for longer periods of time, and special NBB approval is required for periods exceeding 180 days. The surrender requirement of 30% at the auction exchange rate applies to proceeds in freely convertible currencies and Russian rubles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes BELARUS 99 No. A transaction certificate or a statistical declaration is required. Licenses are required for exports of the following goods: fabrics made of wool yarn; cotton thread (including thread made of cotton fibers), yarn, and fabric; linen yarn and fabrics; yarn and fabric made of artificial and synthetic fibers and blended fibers; cable and rope products; terry cloth towels and similar terry cloth fabrics; interwoven interlocking fabrics; knitwear, socks, and hosiery articles; knitted clothing accessories; textile clothing and ac- cessories; blankets, throws, and bed, table, bath, and kitchen linens; dishcloths; curtains, window shades, and bedspreads; sacks; paper bags; floor cleaning fabrics; and sets consist- ing of fabrics and yarn (only for exports requiring special licenses issued by the MOT, based on the EU system for textile trading). In addition, exports of the following goods are effected on the basis of MOT-issued licenses: dry nonfat milk, mushrooms, cranberries and blueberries, grains, flax seeds and rape seeds, alcohol products, ethyl alcohol, raw amber, unprocessed lumber, mineral fertilizers (within allocated quotas), precious metals and pre- cious stones in any form and state, crude oil, raw hides and animal skins, long flax fiber, and ferrous and nonferrous metal scrap and waste. Contracts for exports of petroleum refin- ing products must be registered with the MOT. Mineral fertilizers, waste, and ferrous and nonferrous metal scrap are subject to export quo- tas and licensing requirements, as are exports of wood-fiber panels to Hungary. VAT and excise taxes are collected on goods exported to Georgia, Russia, and Turkmenistan. Under the arrangement of the common customs region with Russia, export customs duties are collected on a list of goods with a low degree of processing that are exported outside the customs union. Most duties are on an ad valorem basis and range from 5% to 30%. Specific and combined duties are also levied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Effective April 1, 2001, there are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona fide expenses related to business travel. Prior to March 31, 2001, individuals (resi- dents and nonresidents) were permitted to acquire foreign cash of up to $300 a day. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All service export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days, and proceeds from exports of services performed by residents under commission contracts must be repatriated within 180 days. Special MOT approval is required for longer repatriation periods. Special per- mission from the NBB is required for periods exceeding 180 days. A requirement of 30% applies to receipts in freely convertible currencies and Russian rubles. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The government and the NBB establish quotas and procedures for clearing the securities of foreign issuers for circulation in Belarus and the quotas and procedures for clearing se- curities of issuers under the jurisdiction of Belarus for circulation outside Belarus. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 BELARUS On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The domestic placement of stocks and bonds of foreign issuers and foreign placement of stocks and bonds of domestic issuers are permitted, subject to regulations. Registration with the State Securities Committee of the Republic of Belarus (GKTsB) is required for shares to be exported. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents GKTsB registration is required for shares to be imported. Purchase abroad by residents A permit from the NBB and registration with the BCSE and, when necessary, with the GKTsB are required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Registration of securities is required. The NBB regulates the issue of CDs and saving cer- tificates by banks. These may be issued both in domestic currency and in foreign exchange. Banks are not allowed to export bank certificates. Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is not required for sale. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Transfers of CDs to nonresidents are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits A permit is required for deferral of receipt of export proceeds. For deferrals of 90 to 180 days, the permit is issued by the MOT; for deferrals of more than 180 days, the permit is issued by the NBB. The same procedures apply to advance payments. By residents to nonresidents An NBB permit is required if the credit is for longer than 180 days. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBB is required for a credit of longer than 180 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A permit from the NBB and MFA is required. Inward direct investment Foreign investment must be registered at the MFA; financial institutions must also register it at the NBB. In the case of insurance institutions, foreign investment must also be regis- tered at the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain activities require special ap- proval (license). When establishing an enterprise with foreign investments, the proportion of a foreign investor's share is not restricted, except for insurance organizations and banks, which may not exceed 49%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 101 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed fu ll repatriation of their initial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These operations are prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Effective June 28, 2001, controls have been abolished on the amount of foreign currency purchases and sales on the over-the-counter exchange market. Foreign currency purchases and sales may be performed by juridical persons, resident and nonresident individuals, and authorized banks on both the exchange market and the over-the-counter exchange market. Borrowing abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of banking licenses. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Lending to nonresidents for investment in Belarus is prohibited. These transactions are permitted for settlements with nonresidents; settlements with resi- dents who have the appropriate permits; and purchases and sales of foreign currency for purposes of settlements specified under the lending agreement. Effective January 1, 2001, the reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was reduced to 12% from 16%. Effective January 1, 2001, the reserve requirements on domestic and foreign currency de- posits were reduced to 12% and 16% from 16% and 19%, respectively. Effective March 1, 2002, different reserve requirements were imposed on rubel deposits of individuals and juridical persons and the reserve requirement for rubel deposits of individuals was set at 14% (that for rubel deposits of juridical persons remains unchanged at 16%). Effective April 1, 2002, the reserve requirement for rubel deposits of individuals was reduced to 13%, and on May 1, 2002, it was further reduced to 12%. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Coordination with the NBB is required. In banks by nonresidents Coordination with the NBB is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are established depending on the type of foreign currency (freely convertible currency and currency with restricted convertibility). Require- ments are also established with regard to limits on the differential between off-balance- sheet assets and liabilities. Limits are computed as a whole by type of foreign currency regardless of whether the asset (liability) belongs to a resident or nonresident. Effective June 1, 2002, the following limits on open foreign exchange positions have been established: (1) the overall open foreign exchange position is 20% of an authorized bank's equity capital; (2) the open foreign exchange position for each type of foreign currency on balance-sheet accounts and off-balance-sheet accounts is 10% of an authorized bank's eq- uity capital; and (3) the open foreign exchange position on forward transactions for each type of foreign currency is 10% of an authorized bank's equity capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 BELARUS Changes During 2001 Status under IMF Articles of Agree- ment November 5. Belarus accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts January L The authorities announced the introduction of a crawling peg against the Rus- sian ruble. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the ex- change rate. March 31. The daily limit of $300 on purchases of foreign exchange a person a day was removed. June 28. Banks required an NBB license to deal in precious metals and stones. June 28. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase foreign currency with Belarusian rubels from T accounts and correspondent accounts of nonresident banks opened at authorized domestic banks. Imports and import payments March 13. Fees on foreign trade (barter) transactions were abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions April 28. Ceilings on the markup on imported goods were abolished. April L The limit on payments for travel was lifted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits was reduced to 12% from 16%. January 1. The reserve requirement on domestic currency deposits was reduced to 16% from 19%. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 28. Controls were abolished on the amount of foreign currency purchases and sales on the over-the-counter exchange market. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2002 March L Banks were exempted from customs duties and VAT on bank and measured ingots of precious metals for the performance of banking operations, and other juridical persons were exempted from customs duties and the VAT on ingots that are to be sold to banks. March 1. Different reserve requirements were imposed on rubel deposits of individuals and juridical persons, and the reserve requirement for rubel deposits of individuals was set at 14% (that for rubel deposits of juridical persons remained unchanged at 16%). April L The reserve requirement for rubel deposits of individuals was reduced to 13%. May 1. The reserve requirement for rubel deposits of individuals was reduced to 12%. June L The following limits on open foreign exchange positions were established: (1) the overall open foreign exchange position is 20% of an authorized bank's equity capital; (2) the open foreign exchange position for each type of foreign currency on balance-sheet accounts and off-balance-sheet accounts is 10% of an authorized bank's equity capital; and (3) the open foreign exchange position on forward transactions for each type of foreign currency is 10% of an authorized bank's equity capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belgium is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Belgian franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28,2002, both the Belgian franc and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro be- came the sole legal tender. Other legal tender The Luxembourg franc also circulated as legal tender through February 28, 2002. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Belgium participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Belgian franc was set at BF 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the right to in- tervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Belgium applies exchange restrictions against Iraq. Restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers to specially targeted persons in connection with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Accounts of the Taliban are blocked, as are the accounts of some residents of Myanmar, and those of the UNITA movement in Angola and individuals linked thereto. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 BELGIUM Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are affected by international security restrictions. The accounts held in the names of several former Yugoslav officials are still blocked, as are accounts of the Taliban, accounts of some residents of Myanmar, and of the UNITA movement in Angola and individuals linked thereto. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from some non-EU countries, including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, nontextile products from China, and shoes from Vietnam. All other products are free of license requirements. Ef- fective January 1, 2001, the licensing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was lifted; effective January 1, 2002, however, it was reintroduced. Along with other EU countries, the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA, on a number of steel products from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine, and on a number of products from China (ceramics, porcelain, and shoes). Import taxes and/or tariffs Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 105 Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for only a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for weapons, and for diamonds. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for the acqui- sition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies that do not have their principal office in Belgium. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These regulations are maintained, but the introduction of the euro has considerably reduced their significance. The EU allows its member countries to maintain such regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The licensing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was lifted. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BELGIUM Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Belgian franc could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Imports and import payments January L The licensing requirement for steel imports from several non-EU countries was reintroduced. March L The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of BZ$1 per US$0.5. The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of CARICOM member countries. Commer- cial banks are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at the official rate. Effective Janu- ary 2, 2002, exchange houses are authorized and are allowed to deal in foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. A stamp duty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior to December 27, 2001, residents could use only the Belize dollar in domestic transactions. On that date, the Central Bank of Belize Act was amended to allow all those with earnings in foreign exchange to pay their taxes, utility bills, and other expenses in U.S. dollars. Belize is a member of CARICOM. Belize participates in the CMCF. The CBB is responsible for administering exchange controls, which apply to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only exceptional cases and applications involving substantial amounts are referred directly to the CBB. However, all applications for foreign 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 BELIZE International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for audit and record keeping. No. No. Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported without the approval of the CBB. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZ$100. Amounts beyond this limit require the approval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. The amount of foreign currency that each resident traveler may take abroad is left to the discretion of the commercial banks and is subject to availability and guided by limits. Nonresidents may take out up to the amount imported or the limits specified. Each traveler may bring in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened both domestically and abroad, but CBB approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must have permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Prepayments for imports require authorization from the CBB; in most cases, such authori- zation is delegated to the commercial banks. The CBB rations its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for payments of a few essential import items, such as fuel and Pharmaceuticals. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE 109 Letters of credit Other Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import li- censes from the Ministry of Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally granted. Customs duties corresponding to the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET range from 5% to 20%, with a number of items (particularly agricultural inputs) entering duty free. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or hu- manitarian nature, and goods for reexport are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement duties ranging from 5% to 25%. Effective August 25, 2001, an environmental tax of 1% is levied on a broad range of imports, replacing a 5% tax on plastics. Specific duties and surcharges apply to certain products. State import monopoly The Belize Marketing Board has an import monopoly on rice, potatoes, onions, and carrots. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless otherwise directed by the CBB. The CBB makes direct pur- chases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the traditional practice of purchasing from commercial banks. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for live animals, excluding pets; fish, crustaceans, and mol- lusks, excluding agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus fruits; and sugar. Yes. Transshipments are subject to a 1.5% customs administration fee. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The CBB rations its sale of foreign exchange for invisible payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis. Trade-related payments There are controls on the payment of commissions. Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits For the payment and transfer of commissions, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. For interest payments, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For transfer of profits and dividends, an income statement and a declaration of dividends must be presented along with clearance from the CIT. The following limits are in effect: (1) for nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a trip; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 BELIZE foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Payments related to medical costs are made directly to a doctor or hospital with original invoices or bills supporting the application. For the transfer of pensions and payments for family maintenance and alimony, CBB approval and CIT clearance are required. Quantitative limits The limit for gifts is BZ$100 a donor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. Foreign workers' wages Approval for remittances of wages is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Other payments For the transfer of consulting and legal fees, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Indicative limits/bona fide test Similar requirements apply for subscriptions and membership fees for study abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transfers require the approval of the CBB, but controls are liberally administered. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. BELIZE in On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inward direct investment must be registered with the CBB if the profits are to be repatriated in the future. Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. Effective March 27, 2001, a land speculation tax of 5% of the unimproved value is levied on purchases of land exceeding 300 acres. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 BELIZE To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The repatriation of gambling proceeds by nonresidents requires clearance from the CIT. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 27. The Central Bank of Belize Act was amended to allow all those with earn- ings in foreign exchange to pay their taxes, utility bills, and other expenses in U.S. dollars. Imports and import payments August 25. An environmental tax of 1% was levied on a broad range of imports, replacing a 5% tax on plastics. Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions March 27. A land speculation tax of 5% of the unimproved value on purchases of land exceeding 300 acres was introduced. Exchange arrangement January 2. Exchange houses were authorized and were allowed to deal in foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buying and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments re- lated to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are mainly made in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be effected freely. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of these institutions relate to outward investment, the domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents, and resident accounts abroad. Within the framework of the regional financial market, the placement and soliciting of foreign and domestic securities in Benin require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1 14 BENIN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization of the MOF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency equivalent to CFAF 2 million a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 1 million must declare them to customs upon entry. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad with the authorization of the MOF, which is granted after obtaining approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened, but approval is required, n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the official foreign exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 1 15 Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 million. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 million and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 million are subject to prior inspection. Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% common solidarity fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment due date. Authorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Yes. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of For- eign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MOF, with the exception of articles with small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and charcoal are banned. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 BENIN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Yes. Yes. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Other payments The use of credit cards is allowed only when issued by specialized institutions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions According to exchange regulations within the WAEMU, essentially all capital inflows may take place freely. Capital outflows in the form of repayment of credits, liquidation of investments, and purchases of option contracts may also be carried out freely, but they must be declared to the MOF for information purposes. All investments abroad by resi- dents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such invest- ments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. The granting of credits by residents to nonresidents requires documentation for statistical purposes. Prior RCPSFM authorization is required for the issue or sale of securities or real estate by nonresidents as well as for the solicitation and advertisement of investments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents BENIN 1 17 The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Benin by nonresi- dents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. There are no controls on the sale of secu- rities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a non- resident and a resident, but such sales are subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Beninese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Bono's or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment are subject to a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Residents are not allowed to purchase abroad new materials or shares with the aim of deliv- ering these within the framework of a sell option contract. If the execution of a contract requires delivery abroad, the sell option must have underlying assets that may be bought locally by residents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 BENIN Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions: (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the pay- ment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Benin and its parent company abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval by the MOF is required. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the author- ized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign-exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign-exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investments abroad by residents are subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a for- eign-exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign-exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the postal service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 119 Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents to residents may be granted freely, requiring only a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Except for inheritances and legacies, for which payments are generally authorized, payments pertaining to these operations require prior MOF authorization. Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior authorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Larger amounts may be transferred with MOF authorization. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to cover current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions may be freely conducted, but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange No explicit regulations exist regarding these transactions, but prior authorization by the MOF is required with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases require prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. All overdrafts and advances require prior MOF authorization with BCEAO approval. The regulations governing foreign investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The Insurance Code in effect in Benin includes rules applicable specifically to the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 BENIN Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bhutan is the Bhutanese ngultrum. The Indian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The ngultrum is pegged to the Indian rupee at par. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the State Bank of India for these currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Yes. Bhutan is a member of the ACU. The MOF controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. The MOF has delegated to the Royal Monetary Authority (RMA) the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The RMA is responsible for implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for payments for invisible transactions. Payments and remittances by residents to nonresidents other than in cash and traveler's checks must be channeled through authorized banks in Bhutan. No. No. Imports of gold and silver, up to stipulated quantities, by Bhutanese citizens are permitted. Imports beyond this require special permission from the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The importation and exportation of cash and securities are subject to declaration of value at the customs point of entry into, and departure from, Bhutan. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad BHUTAN Yes. Foreign currency notes purchased from authorized banks or declared on entry may be exported freely. Resident Accounts The following categories of persons are permitted to open and maintain dollar-denominated foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Bhutan: (1) diplomatic missions in Bhutan and their expatriate employees, (2) representative offices of donor agencies and their expatriate employees, (3) third-country contracting firms and their expatriate employ- ees engaged in executing projects financed by donor agencies, and (4) any person who is a national of a third country and resides in Bhutan. The accounts may be opened, but approval of the RMA is required. Residents of Bhutan are not allowed to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. Bhutanese citizens living abroad must close foreign exchange accounts upon return and repatriate any balances to Bhutan. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import licenses are governed by Rules and Procedures for Imports of Goods from Third Countries issued by the MOF. An import license is required for the importation of capital and intermediate goods from countries other than India. Foreign exchange for all payments related to merchandise imports is automatically made available by authorized banks against import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs BHUTAN 123 Imports from India are free from tariffs and are subject only to the Bhutanese sales tax. Tax rates range from zero for essential goods to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than India are subject to tariffs. The maximum tariff rate is 30%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%), and for tobacco and other alcoholic beverages and spirits (100%). State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Proceeds in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA either directly or through authorized banks in Bhutan within 90 days. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export taxes are applied only to exports of unprocessed timber, apples, oranges, and car- damom. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at rates ranging from 5% to 20% of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All invisible payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the RMA. The RMA is charged with setting limits (indicative in most cases) up to which for- eign exchange may be made available for payments for invisible transactions. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. There is a travel allowance of $1,500 per ticketed passenger per calendar year. In case of business travel, the foreign exchange cost of an air ticket and country-specific per diem covering accommodation are provided to travelers. There are no time limits, but two weeks is considered the norm. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval BHUTAN Allowances for educational fees and tuitions are provided without limits if they are paid directly to universities or institutions abroad. Students may also purchase foreign exchange for a monthly stipend of $900 and a onetime settling-in allowance of $1,500; the settling-in allowance and three monthly stipends may be purchased in advance. For medical expenses, subject to referral by a local physician for treatment abroad, foreign exchange may be purchased to cover the cost of treatment and medicine and for living ex- penses abroad. Living expenses vary from country to country, but there are no specific limits for other expenses, and all reasonable expenses are allowed. Yes. A citizen of Bhutan who, under the recommendation of a medical specialist, travels to a third country for medical treatment is permitted to purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks within the limit prescribed by the RMA for the cost of treatment, medicine, and living expenses. Any national of a third country who—with the prior approval of the Royal Government of Bhutan—is employed directly by a public or private organization in Bhutan, is permitted to remit his or her salary and savings in foreign exchange through an authorized bank. The RMA may set limits on any or all such remittances as it deems necessary. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds of any receipts or holdings by Bhutanese citizens and compa- nies should be repatriated to Bhutan by transferring such claims and funds to authorized banks in Bhutan. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments All capital transactions must be approved by the RMA. There are controls on all derivative transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment There are controls on all direct investment transactions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all real estate transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 125 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Up to $5 million (gross) investment is allowed. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the boliviano. The dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg The official selling rate is determined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia (CBB). The official exchange rate is the average of the bid rates accepted in the latest auc- tion and applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves in the CBB. Before each auction, the Com- mittee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the CBB will not accept any bids. This floor price, which is expressed in dollars, is the official exchange rate. Economic agents may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. All public sector institutions, including public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the CBB auction market. The CBB also purchases foreign exchange at a rate that is Bs 0.02 per $1 lower than the selling rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Bolivia and the other LAI A countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the CBB and the central banks of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. The MOF, together with the CBB, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign ex- change for debt-service payments. No. No. Gold may be traded freely, subject to the following tax scale in accordance with the gross value of the sale of gold bullion: 7% for official quotations larger than $700 a troy ounce; between 4% and 7% for official quotations between $400 and $700 a troy ounce, calculated as a 0.01 factor multiplied by the official quotation; and 4% for official quotations of less than $400 a troy ounce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Resident Accounts 127 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit LCs have to be opened at a bank in the Bolivian banking system. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports are controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Bolivia applies an import tariff of 10% on consumption goods. Tariffs of zero and 5% are applied to capital goods in accordance with approved lists. A zero rate is also applied to imports of books and printed materials. Donated food, including wheat, is exempt from the import tariff. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports are subject to a revision process by public entities. If necessary, however, exporters may contract specialized agencies for verification. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 BOLIVIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on the payment for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Profit remittances are subject to a 12.5% tax, which is computed as equiva- lent to the 25% income tax times the presumed net profit of 50% of the amount remitted. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior au- thorization by the MOF and to control by the CBB. All proceeds of borrowings from for- eign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the CBB. Yes. No. No. No. No. Financial institutions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign cur- rency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the exporting sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. All overseas credits of less than a one-year term are subject to reserve requirements, except for fully matched, short-term liabilities for foreign trade operations. Prior to November 29, 2001, the reserve requirement was 2% for short-term deposits in domestic and foreign exchange and for time deposits in foreign exchange of more than six months but less than one year. Time deposits in domestic currency were exempt, as were all time deposits for more than one year. Effective that date, the reserve requirement of 2% is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Liquid asset requirements BOLIVIA 129 applied to time deposits in domestic currency with a maturity of up to 60 days and to time deposits in foreign currency with a maturity of up to 360 days. The liquid asset requirement is 10% for domestic and foreign exchange deposits. The 10% requirement applies to time deposits in foreign exchange with a maturity of up to 720 days. Time deposits in foreign exchange with maturity of more than 720 days are not subject to any requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 80% of the value of the banks' net worth minus their fixed assets. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The maximum limit that pension fund administrators may invest abroad varies between 10% and 50% of the total value of the Individual Capitalization Fund. The specific limit is decided by the CBB. Pension fund administrators may invest abroad through authorized primary and secondary markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 29. A reserve requirement of 2% was applied to time deposits in domestic cur- rency with a maturity of up to 60 days and to those in foreign currency with a maturity of up to 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the convertible marka. Deutsche mark banknotes and coins (through December 31, 2001; euro banknotes and coins from January 1, 2002) circulate widely in the two constituent entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The convertible marka is pegged to the euro at the rate of KM 1 per €0.51129 (prior to January 1, 2002, the convertible marka was pegged to the deutsche mark at par). The Cen- tral Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (CBBH) no longer publishes indicative exchange rates for other currencies. The CBBH guarantees unrestricted convertibility of the conver- tible marka for deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are no foreign exchange controls in place at the state level for transactions in convertible marka. No. No. No. Yes. There are no limits at the state level on the amount of foreign currency that may be taken across international borders or transferred through bank transactions. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Individuals and exporters may hold foreign exchange in accounts with commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 131 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Imports must arrive within 60 days from the date of the advance payment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list No. Yes. There is no legislated list of prohibited imports, but the Council of Ministers may establish such a list as circumstances require. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exporters have to be authorized to engage in foreign trade. Customs requires that exporters provide documents accompanying the goods; in some cases, documents verifying the origin of the goods are also required. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Following an agreement with Germany, the CBBH will provide documentation to Germany on pensions from Germany that are being paid by the commercial banks under its jurisdic- tion to the workers concerned. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Securities markets participants must be authorized to trade on the organized markets in accordance with laws on security transactions. As of December 31, 2001, however, there were no organized markets. No. No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Only prudential regulations on banks apply. Controls on direct investment Investments must be registered. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Full repatriation of principal and profits is permitted after compliance with tax laws and settlement of due obligations. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The foreign exchange entity law and the banking law regulate these transactions on the level of the entities that constitute Bosnia and Herzegovina. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. There are controls on stocks, shares, and securities under entity laws. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 133 Exchange arrangement January 1. The peg to the deutsche mark was replaced with a peg to the euro at the rate of KM 1 per €0.51129. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana pula. Some external loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990, are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Sharing Scheme (FERSS). Un- der the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4% are borne fully by the borrower, while the next 6% and the following 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government in ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, respectively. Risks associ- ated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15% are borne fully by the government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Under the FERSS, bor- rowers obtain foreign exchange for servicing their external debt at exchange rates that may differ from the market rate by more than 2%. The scheme is to be phased out once the existing loans are fully repaid. No new loans will be issued under this scheme. The exchange rate of the pula is determined with reference to a weighted basket of curren- cies comprising the SDR and the South African rand. The central bank deals in four curren- cies: the dollar, the South African rand, the euro, and the pound sterling. Foreign exchange bureaus are licensed to deal in foreign currencies on a spot basis only. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and the maturity dates of forward exchange contracts/transactions are not restricted. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents are permitted to make payments for goods and services from outside sources using pula-denominated checks, provided that traders outside Botswana are willing to ac- cept their collection by banks outside Botswana. Such transactions are subject to supporting documentation for checks in amounts exceeding P 10,000. Botswana is a signatory to various bilateral trade agreements with the following countries: China, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Korea, Malawi, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Yes. Yes. Botswana is a member of the SACU, which allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on trade-related payments to or from SACU countries. For practical/operational purposes, several administrative powers of the Bank of Botswana (BOB) have been delegated to commercial banks. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency BOTSWANA 135 No. No. There are no restrictions on trading or owning precious metals in commercial forms, such as coins, but there are restrictions on possession of unwrought precious metals, such as bullion. A declaration is required for amounts equal to or in excess of P 10,000 at the time of travel. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they legitimately own, subject to comple- tion of a declaration for any amount equal to or greater than the equivalent of P 10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents and for nonresidents. These accounts facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without requiring conversion of foreign currency re- ceipts into pula and vice versa and protection against fluctuations in exchange rates. Com- mercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for their customers for any amount in any currency at the discretion of banks. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are regulated by customs and excise legislation. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a CET only on imports from outside the SACU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 BOTSWANA State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements For the following goods, the maximum limits for exports free of payments are: bona fide nonmonetary gifts, P 20,000 a year for a permanent resident; rejected goods, P 100,000 a transaction, subject to provision of documentary evidence; and commercial samples (i.e., goods for exhibitions or other promotional purposes), P 150,000 a transaction. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.r. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue purposes. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires a permit. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Authorized dealers may allow remittances of interim dividends without reference to the BOB for companies listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange (BSE) and may approve other remittances of dividends/profits without reference to the BOB, subject to satisfactory sup- porting documentation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents No controls are placed on the participation of nonresidents in debt instruments issued in the domestic market, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase central bank bills (BOB certificates), or any money market instrument, the purpose of which is to mop up excess liquidity in the system. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to issue long-term pula-denominated bonds traded on the BSE, subject to the listing requirements of the exchange. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase the monetary instruments used by the BOB to absorb excess liquidity. These controls are subject to the foreign exposure limits of a particular bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad BOTSWANA 137 No. No. No. n.r. No. Loans to nonresident customers are restricted to 25% of the unimpaired capital of a com- mercial bank, and, in aggregate, loans to nonresidents should not exceed 800% of a bank's unimpaired capital. These transactions are subject to the listing requirements of the BSE. Prudential limits are set for exposure per currency and for the overall foreign currency risk exposure. For major dealing currencies, the limit is 15% of a bank's unimpaired capital and for others, it is 5%. The limit for the overall foreign exchange exposure is 30% of the unimpaired capital of a bank, using the shorthand method. Institutional investors, such as pension funds and life insurance companies, may invest not more than 70% of their assets outside Botswana. This control is imposed by the Registrars of Insurance and Pension and Provident Funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1999. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian real. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, tourist agencies, and providers of accommodation for tourists that are authorized to deal in foreign ex- change. Brokers and tourist agencies deal only in banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. Providers of accommodation for tourists may only buy banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. The maximum tax on credit, foreign exchange operations, insurance operations, and on transactions in financial instruments or securities (IOF) is limited by law to 25%. A 5% tax is applied to inflows related to external loans with a minimum coverage maturity of up to 90 days. A 2% tax is applied to remittances related to obligations of credit card admini- stration companies to pay for purchases by their clients. The tax is zero for other foreign exchange transactions. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks are permitted to trade foreign exchange on a forward basis within the statutory limits (bought, sold) of the exchange position; such transactions must be settled within 360 days. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency is required only in foreign exchange transactions related to the Brazil-Hungary agreement or the LAIA covenant. These transactions must be made in dollars. n.a. n.a. Settlements with Hungary are made in dollars every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Brazil is a member of the LAIA. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Republica Bolivariana de Ven- ezuela may be made through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. The National Monetary Council (NMC) is responsible for formulating the overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control regulations affecting foreign capital and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank of Brazil (CBB). The Ministry of Planning, Management, and Budget enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. For- eign trade policy is formulated by the Foreign Trade Chamber, which consists of the 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 139 Minister of Development, Industry, and Foreign Trade (head); the Minister of the Civil House; the Minister of Finance; the Minister of Budget and Planning; the Minister of Foreign Relations; and the Minister of Agriculture and Supply. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The MOF coordinates public sector import policy. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions imposed on Iraq, the Taliban, and the UNITA movement in Angola. Restrictions imposed on Libya were lifted on September 20, 2001. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are two separate markets for gold transactions: the financial and commercial markets. Transactions that occur in the financial market are regulated by the CBB. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1% financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The CBB and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets. Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBB and authorized institutions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the international market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or bring in domestic or foreign banknotes, checks, or traveler's checks without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over the equivalent ofUS$10,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be held by authorized foreign exchange dealers; tourist agencies not authorized to deal in foreign exchange; Brazilian citizens living abroad; the Brazilian Post Administration; credit card administration companies; companies responsible for the devel- opment and execution of projects in the energy sector; and insurance and reinsurance com- panies and reinsurance brokers. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be held by embassies, foreign delegations, international organizations, foreign transportation companies, foreign citizens in transit in the country, energy compa- nies, Brazilian citizens living abroad, and reinsurance companies. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Natural and juridical persons (financial and nonfmancial institutions) may hold these accounts. Only the resources deposited in nonresident banks or the resources that have entered Brazil through foreign currency sales and have not been withdrawn may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BRAZIL repatriated to foreign countries. These resources continue to be available to nonresidents once they are withdrawn, but only in the national currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures External financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days must be registered in the Financial Operations Registry, an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Department of Foreign Capital and Ex- change (DECEC) within five days. The time to finalize anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Advance deposits are required for imports conducted through the LAIA, except for imports up to US$100,000 from MERCOSUR countries, Bolivia, and Chile. All importers must be registered in the SECEX Importer and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported by firms and persons and must be registered by the CBB, except for imports by the public sector (federal, state, and municipal); imports by PETROBRAS (the Brazilian government oil enterprise) and contracting or subcontracting firms engaged in oil explora- tion through risk contracts; imports of medicine by individuals up to US$5,000; imports of samples without commercial value, except for pharmaceutical products up to US$1,000; imports of products, except for those prohibited or under special control, by individuals for personal consumption; and imports of goods considered as passengers' baggage for per- sonal use. The import subsystem of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) allows importers, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the vari- ous stages of an import process directly through the interlinked computers of SECEX, cus- toms, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) im- ports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/IMPORT; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market within 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). Required for imports originating or proceeding from countries under restrictions deter- mined by the UN Security Council and imports of bovines in any form originating or proceeding from the United Kingdom. The drafts or LCs must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under LCs must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the LCs. Federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit for approval by the Ministry of Planning, Management, and Budget an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to imports of small amounts. Some imports require prior approval (i.e., an import license) from the DECEX. This ap- proval is usually given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items. As a rule, licenses are valid for 60 days, except for imports of custom-made capital goods. The Secre- tariat of Federal Revenue issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed and customs clearance obtained. The importation of certain products requires approval of the Ministry of Science and Tech- nology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equivalent. Most imports are exempt from prior approval requirements. All trade between MERCOSUR partners is liberalized, with the exception of trade in automobiles and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas BRAZIL 141 Imports of agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations; weapons; and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy are prohibited. OGLs are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is restricted to their annexes, up to the existing remainder of issued OGLs. In addition to imports under Brazilian concessions covered by the LAIA agreement, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. In ac- cordance with WTO rules, quotas are imposed on imports of textiles from China, Hong Kong SAR, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China due to their effect on the do- mestic industry. The tariff rate on imports of toys is 25% plus a possible safeguard exten- sion of 15%. For vehicles carrying more than nine persons, the tariff is 65%. For automo- biles, transport vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles, tariffs are 35%, while assemblers established in Brazil may be favored with a special tariff of 17.5%. Other nontariff measures Sanitation and measurement requirements must be observed. Import taxes and/or tariffs The MERCOSUR customs union agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods (including a list of national exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of adjustments designed to bring them into line with the CET within five or six years. Taxes collected through the exchange system Foreign exchange transactions related to imports of goods have IOF exemption, and foreign exchange transactions related to imports of services have a tariff of zero. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas Proceeds must be surrendered before 180 days from the shipment date or 20 days after receipt of proceeds, whichever comes first. Advances on foreign exchange contracts are allowed for operations with terms up to 360 days. Documentation includes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registra- tion. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to exports up to the equivalent of US$10,000. Inspection is required for commodities subject to standardization. Exports of wild animals and their hides, hair, plumes, or eggs in any form; jacaranda-da- Bahia wood; ipecacuanha plants; red and drab varieties of honey; and antiques older than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods require prior approval of the SECEX, including those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, ex- ports on consignment, reexports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. SISCOMEX integrates the activities related to the registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations into a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem allows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cleft pine woods, mahogany, Brazilian walnut, and virola are subject to quotas. For exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, including sugarcane syrup un- suitable for human consumption, the eligibility for exemption from the export tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quantity exceeding domestic necessity author- ized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism Minister and the MOF. An annual quota is in place for imports under Brazilian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements with the LAIA member countries and for goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 BRAZIL Export taxes Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. Exports are free from these taxes or are subject to a zero rate duty, with the exception of exports of (1) raw hides, which are subject to an export duty of 9%; (2) cigarettes to Latin America, which are subject to an export duty of 150%; and, effective June 8, 2001, (3) weapons and ammunition to Central America, South America, and the Caribbean, which are taxed at a rate of 150%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for current invisibles not covered by current regulations require approval from the CBB's DECEC. Indicative limits/bona fide tests apply to all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. For unloading and storage costs there are established rules and surveillance procedures related to the operations freely conducted in the commercial market. Regulations on insur- ance and reinsurance transactions in foreign currency are set by the National Council on Private Insurance. Yes. Yes. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in the Foreign Investment Law, limits on income tax deductions are placed on remittances of royalties and technical assis- tance fees. It has been possible, however, to make payments of interest on own capital. This kind of payment may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable in- come of companies, subject to a 15% income withholding tax. Profit remittances related to direct investments are exempt from withholding for income tax purposes. Payments due to depreciation of direct investments are not established by the laws and regulations. As a result, remittances abroad from direct investments are treated as dividends, interest on own capital, capital gains, and return (repatriation) of capital. Payments for medium- and long-term external debt are subject to registration with the CBB's DECEC, and require an electronic registration (prior to March 1, 2001, a certificate of registration), which is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, and fees, provided that due taxes are paid. Profit and dividend remittances are allowed only when the initial foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, contracts for patents and trademarks, and technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, has been registered with the CBB's DECEC. These contracts must be registered with the Financial Registra- tion, which is an electronic system. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 143 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Residents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities, money market securities, and collective investment securities through dedicated offshore investment funds (FIEX). On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment funds are organized in the form of open-end mutual funds. Participation is limited exclusively to natural and juridical persons, and to funds and other collective investment entities resident, domiciled, or headquartered in Brazil. Foreign investment funds may be managed by a multipurpose bank, commercial bank, investment bank, bro- kerage firm, or securities distributor under the supervision and direct responsibility of the manager of the institution. The minimum share of Brady bonds in FIEX funds is 80%. These securities must be kept abroad in a custodian account in the fund 's name. The fund is authorized to conduct opera- tions in organized derivative markets abroad solely for the purpose of hedging the securities making up the respective portfolio. Inward and outward transfers of resources through foreign investment funds are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of monitoring and controlling Brazilian investment, as well as the respective income, investment repatriation, and capital gains. Transfers are processed in foreign currency through the free exchange rate market. The direct purchase of shares of Brazilian companies by nonresidents basically occurs through direct investments and portfolio investments made by a nonresident's representa- tives in the country. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase shares and other securities listed on the Brazilian stock market. Depositary receipts (DRs) constitute another method of acquiring abroad certificates representing shares of Brazilian companies. Nonresidents' representatives in the country are responsible for the registration of foreign investment with the CBB, foreign exchange settlements, the collection of taxes, portfolio bookkeeping, and the safekeeping of documents related to the portfolio. There is no limit or hold period for financial transfers resulting from inflows, flowbacks, and profits or dividends from capital duly registered with the CBB, provided that the ac- counting rules and tax laws are complied with. The transfers must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, with guaranteed access to the free foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency. Natural and juridical persons resident or domiciled in MERCOSUR countries may invest freely in Brazilian stock exchanges without the necessity of trading through investment funds or portfolios. The Brazilian market may be accessed directly by contacting a member institution of the Brazilian securities distribution system, or indirectly through the interme- diation of an institution in the securities distribution system of the investor's country. The Brazilian intermediary institution, through which the foreign investor trades, represents the investor vis-a-vis the Brazilian authorities with respect to the operational, exchange, and tax aspects, and provides information on the operations executed. These investments may be made in dollars, in the currency of the country of origin of the investment, or in reais. Operations involving the repatriation of capital are exempt from income tax withholding. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 BRAZIL Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Earnings from variable-income investments are subject to a 15% income tax withholding. In addition, a 0.38% tax is levied on all inward and outward financial transactions. The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR environment through share custody certificates or directly. The only way to sell other foreign securities in Brazil is through DRs, which allow the placement of certificates representing these shares in the Brazilian market. Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the floating exchange rate market for transactions from MERCOSUR countries and in the free exchange rate market for DR transactions. There are no limits or hold periods for the investments, although authorization is required for DR issues. Brazilian natural and juridical persons may invest only on stock exchanges in MERCOSUR countries. Outside MERCOSUR, Brazilian juridical persons are allowed to purchase DRs issued abroad by companies headquartered in Brazil. Regulations permit employees of firms belonging to foreign economic groups to purchase shares of the main company up to the equivalent of US$20,000 for each employee, for a period of not less than 12 months. In addition to the rules already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock ex- changes by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective investments may be made through Brazilian investment companies and funds. Issues of securities abroad by residents are accorded the same treatment as direct external borrowing operations. Thus, exchange contracts involving the entry of foreign currencies must be authorized in advance by the CBB. Fund transfers associated with issues of securi- ties abroad are subject to the conditions of the respective certificates of registration issued by the CBB, the conditions of which are set forth in the contract between the debtor and the creditor. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities through dedicated investment funds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents n.r. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds and some other debt securities may be issued by residents but are subject to regis- tration with the CBB's DECEC and the issue of a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, fees, and amortization of principal, provided that due taxes are paid. Foreign loans of less than 90 days are subject to an IOFo f5%. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase money market instruments issued by the central bank through dedicated investment funds. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are allowed to issue commercial paper subject to registration with the CBB's DECEC and the issue of a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related principal and other payments, provided that due taxes are paid. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase collective investments in other securities as well as portfolios of stocks and securities, DRs, conversion funds, privatization funds, real estate investment funds, and emerging enterprises investment funds. The constitution of these funds must be announced in writing to the CBB within a maximum of five days. Funds entering the country are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of controlling foreign capital and future remittances abroad of cash dividends or bonuses and capital gains realized in the sale of the company's shares. Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations and having guaranteed access to the free exchange rate market to purchase foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents BRAZIL 145 n.r. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors have access to derivative markets. Any operation by a nonresident investor in derivatives or other future settlements markets may only be performed or registered in stock exchanges, commodities and futures ex- changes, or over-the-counter markets organized by an entity authorized by the securities commission or settlement and custody system accredited by the CBB or authorized by the securities commission under their respective jurisdictions. In addition, resident and domi- ciled natural persons and corporations, including those having their head office abroad; funds; and other entities of foreign collective investment may perform transactions in commodities and futures exchanges involving forwards, futures, and options contracts. Nonresident financial institutions are allowed to issue swaps in the domestic market, sub- ject to constituting the regulatory capital charge against the counterparty credit risk of such operations if they are not guaranteed by a clearinghouse. Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations with financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. The costs of such operations must conform to the parameters in force in the international market. The CBB may, at its sole discretion, require foreign exchange compensation sufficient to eliminate the effects of operations not in line with the established objective, or executed outside those parameters, without prejudice to other sanctions that may apply. Payments and receipts in foreign currency scheduled or expected to occur in the future in connection with commercial or financial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Hedging operations, however, are subject to the following limits at any time: (1) in interest rate and currency swaps, the op- erations are limited to the amount of the underlying commercial or financial rights and obligations remaining in foreign currency; and (2) in commodities swaps, open positions are limited to the physical volume of the commodity to be exported, imported, or traded in the domestic market. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Only two forms of credits are permitted: (1) the Exporting Financing Program (PROEX), which is financed with national budget funds—PROEX resources may not be used to estab- lish any facility for foreign public or private entities, insofar as financing is granted on a case-by-case basis and because credit may not be made available to nonresidents for use in several installments spread over a period of time; and (2) the Machinery and Equipment Export Financing Program (FINAMEX), which is operated through agent banks by the Special Agency for Industrial Financing (FINAME). FINAMEX provides funds so that financial institutions (FINAME agents) can grant loans to national exporters at rates and on terms similar to those available to their foreign competitors. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with terms in excess of 360 days must be authorized by and registered with the CBB's DECEC. Prepayment of exports must be authorized by the CBB prior to the entry of the foreign exchange into Brazil. Operations governed by these regulations have a 361-day minimum term and are exempt from income tax and from the taxes on credit, exchange, insurance operations, and securities operations. The CBB authorizes and registers external financing for imports of capital goods, intermediate goods, raw materials, and other goods and mer- chandise, regardless of the type of importer or the destination of the merchandise, if the operations have a term of at least one year. In private sector import operations without the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, the financing terms—interest rate, spread, and down payment—are freely contracted by the parties. In the case of a public sector entity and in cases involving ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 BRAZIL the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, interest rates may not exceed the LIBOR rate for the reference period plus specified maximum spreads. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Requests for authorization may be approved by the CBB. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The proceeds of financial credits granted to residents must be kept within the country, and the resources must be used for investment in economic activities. Exchange contracts in- volving the entry of foreign exchange in connection with borrowing must be registered, effective March 1, 2001, in the electronic registration system of the CBB (previously, they were subject to prior CBB approval). Foreign loans of less than 90 days are subject to an IOFof5%. Banks may borrow funds abroad to be applied freely in the domestic market. Guarantees by nonfmancial juridical persons in credit operations for their foreign subsidiaries are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Exchange operations involving financial transfers abroad in the execution of bank sureties and guarantees are carried out exclusively through the floating exchange rate market when such guarantees relate or are linked to (1) imports and other foreign currency operations not covered by certificates issued by the CBB or by a facility; and (2) repatriation of amounts entering the country as advance payment for exports in the event of nonshipment of the goods. Exchange operations involving financial transfers associated with the execution of payment guarantees for imports, loans, or external financing covered by certificates of authorization or registration issued by the CBB are processed through the free exchange rate market. There are no controls on guarantees provided by nonresidents to residents in connection with foreign capital registered with the CBB, subject to the presentation of a formal state- ment by the foreign entity furnishing the guarantee. Data concerning the guarantee and the costs incurred in obtaining it are included in the Certificate of Authorization or Registration of the guaranteed operation. If costs are incurred in obtaining the guarantee, the credit op- eration must be authorized in advance by the CBB. There are no specific regulations governing other operations. In the event of execution of a guarantee, the beneficiary must arrange for the entry of the corresponding foreign exchange directly through the banking system. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may transfer up to US$5 million for each financial group, including all remittances in the last 12 months, and they are basi- cally required to keep on file and make available to the CBB the documents mentioned in regulations. Transfers exceeding the established limit must first be submitted to the CBB no less than 30 days in advance of the exchange contract, regardless of the amount. Exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an entity belonging to the direct or indirect public administration are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. In this case, remittances must be processed through the free exchange rate market. Brazilian enterprises may invest in financial institutions abroad through the floating exchange rate market. However, such investments by nonfmancial enterprises require prior approval of the CBB and must meet some specified conditions. Investments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior opinion of the CBB's Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy several conditions, especially with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, time in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Applications for the registration of foreign direct investment and technology are not subject to prior authorization. Investments in commercial banks are limited to 30% of the voting capital, if there are controls on the operations of Brazilian banks in the markets where their main offices are located. The establishment in Brazil of new branches of financial institutions domiciled abroad is prohibited. Also, any increase in the percentage of equity ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 147 participation in financial institutions headquartered in Brazil by natural or juridical persons resident or domiciled abroad is prohibited, except for authorizations resulting from interna- tional agreements, from reciprocity arrangements, or in the interest of the Brazilian gov- ernment as expressed by presidential decree. In the case of highway freight transportation, there are limitations on equity participation of up to one-fifth of the voting capital stock, except for companies established before July 11, 1980, to which different rules apply. In future capital increases by subscription, however, such entities are required to pay up to four-fifths of said increases in ordinary registered shares through national underwriters. Foreign participation in journalistic and radio and television broadcasting enterprises is prohibited. Direct or indirect equity participation by foreign enterprises or capital in the health care sector in Brazil is also prohibited, except in special cases. The registration of foreign investment through the verification of patent or trademark rights as a means of paying in capital is subject to prior recording of the deed of transfer or as- signment of the rights to use the patent or trademark with the National Institute of Industrial Property, and is limited to the value stated in the latter. The investment is registered in the currency of the country where the beneficiary is domiciled or headquartered, and must be requested from the CBB by the party receiving the investment. Foreign investments via the contribution of goods without exchange cover are subject to electronic registration with the CBB and authorization by the SECEX. The goods, machin- ery, or equipment must be used in the production of goods or the provision of services, must have a useful life of more than five years, and must be part of the enterprise's assets for at least five years. Investments through currency transfers are not subject to prior authorization. This type of investment may take place through the free exchange rate market to pay up the subscribed capital of enterprises already operating in Brazil, to organize a new enterprise, or to acquire an interest in an existing Brazilian enterprise. Branches of foreign companies may be opened, subject to the prior issuance of an authoriz- ing decree by the Minister of Development, Industry, and Foreign Trade. A branch is con- sidered an office of a foreign enterprise. Enterprises established in Brazil with any degree of foreign equity participation are not covered by this restriction. The entry of resources associated with the investment must be processed through a banking institution authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. All foreign direct investment must be registered with the CBB's DECEC through an electronic system. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans n.r. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments require the approval of the CBB. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but documentary support is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transferof assets Transfer abroad by emigrants The beneficiary must prove he or she is leaving Brazil definitely, and certificates of the Secretariat of the Federal Revenue are required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 BRAZIL Transfer into the country by immigrants There are no controls, but documentary support is required. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittances for gambling are not permitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Foreign borrowing for terms exceeding 360 days was subject to authorization and registra- tion with the CBB. The CBB required that banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations obtain facilities abroad for terms of up to 360 days to extend commercial credit in Brazil. The National Bank for Economic and Social Development, private investment or develop- ment banks, commercial banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, and multipurpose banks with a commercial portfolio (if authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations and holding an investment or development portfolio) were permitted to contract loans abroad to be onlent to enterprises in Brazil by issuing commercial paper. They could also borrow abroad by issuing floating-rate notes, fixed-rate notes, floating-rate certificates of deposit, fixed-rate certificates of deposit, government bonds, and private bonds. Financial institutions in the National Rural Credit System could borrow abroad to finance costs, investment, or the marketing of agricultural and livestock production. Banks could raise funds abroad to be onlent to natural or juridical persons to finance the construction or purchase of new real estate. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations could use facilities contracted for terms exceeding 360 days with banks abroad to finance imports by resident enterprises. The public sector could engage in external credit operations for the settlement of internal debt. The rate of the IOF applied to lending opera- tions in foreign currency was zero. Banks may borrow funds abroad to be applied freely in the domestic market. Effective March 1, 2001, registration of credit operation is made through an electronic system. There are no legal provisions authorizing banks or credit institutions headquartered in Bra- zil to grant financial loans to nonresidents or to purchase securities issued abroad for terms exceeding 360 days. This restriction does not apply to the foreign branches of Brazilian banks with regard to commercial credit. All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency, are null and void. Consequently, banks are pro- hibited from granting foreign currency loans within Brazil. However, this regulation does not apply to the onlending of external foreign currency loans. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Domestic operations in foreign currencies are prohibited. Open foreign exchange position limits The following limits are in effect: (1) Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may hold long positions of up to US$6 million, including all currencies and all of each bank's branches. Amounts exceed- ing this ceiling have to be deposited with the CBB in dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is unlimited, provided that the total amount of combined exposure in gold, assets, and liabilities in foreign exchange do not exceed 60% of each bank's adjusted net worth. Open positions in foreign exchange are not to exceed 60% of capital, and banks must increase capital by 50% of the excess of their open positions over 20% of capital. (2) For licensed dealers (brokerage firms; securities distributors; and credit, financing, and investment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange position is US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed. (3) Licensed tourism agencies may not maintain exchange positions, but they are required to observe the daily operational ceiling (cash) of US$200,000; any surpluses have to be sold to licensed banks or dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 149 (4) Providers of tourist accommodations may have cash holdings in foreign currencies of up to US$100,000 to meet their operational needs; any surplus has to be sold to licensed banks or dealers. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their technical reserves in investment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of their reserves, together with other investments up to the same ceiling, in shares of open companies, pub- licly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open com- panies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquartered in MERCOSUR countries. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 20. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1192, sanctions against Libya were lifted. Exports and export proceeds June 8. Exports of weapons and ammunition to Central America, South America, and the Caribbean were made subject to a 150% tax. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 1. Payments for medium- and long-term external debt require electronic registration (previously, a certificate of registration). Capital transactions Controls on credit operations March L The requirement of CBB approval prior to entering into credit operations was replaced with an electronic system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar also circulates. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Brunei dollar is issued by the Brunei Currency Board (BCB) only against payments in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of Sin- gapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each other's currency and have agreed to mutual exchange at par and without charge. They have instructed their banks to do the same with their customers. Any excess Brunei or Singapore currency is repatriated regularly, with the issuing institution bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other country's currency. The BCB deals only in Singapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes daily buying and selling rates for electronic trans- fers and sight drafts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quotations for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei Darussalam must apply these rates for transactions with the general public for amounts up to B$ 100,000. Exchange rates for amounts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dollar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in Brunei Darussalam. However, as a result of the CIA, foreign exchange risk may be hedged in terms of Singapore dollars by resorting to facilities available in that country, including foreign currency futures and op- tions traded on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, over-the-counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and the short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements n.a. Regional arrangements Brunei Darussalam is a member of the ASEAN. Administration of control There are no formal exchange controls, but the MOF retains responsibility for exchange control matters. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 1 51 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Darussalam, and gold dealers and jewelers spe- cifically authorized by the MOF may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 5% duty is levied on the importation of gold jewelry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for environmental, health, safety, security, or reli- gious reasons. Alcoholic beverages may be imported only by nonresident non-Muslims. Some 70% of items (including basic foodstuffs, construction materials, and educational materials) are exempt from customs duties. Most other goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%, 15%, or 20%. The maximum tariff is 200%. In accordance with the CEPT scheme for the AFT A, Brunei Darussalam will eliminate its tariffs on imports from other ASEAN members by 2003, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently ex- cluded from the plan. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kerosene, rice, salt, and sugar. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests for all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments are subject to a 20% withholding tax. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 153 There are no sectoral controls, but activities relating to national food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local participation. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and industries that solely export may be fully foreign owned. Joint ventures are particularly encouraged in export- import industries and activities supporting such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Brunei citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, including sites destined for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aquaculture. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1998. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian lev. Unitary. An amendment to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) effectively established a currency board arrangement. The deutsche mark was chosen as the peg currency, which has since been replaced with the euro at the rate of lev 1.95583 per €1. The BNB is required to buy and sell on demand and without restriction currencies of EU member countries for leva on the basis of spot exchange rates that may not differ from the official exchange rate by more than 0.5%. Yes. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Balances remain on clearing accounts maintained under former bilateral arrangements. These arrangements are now inoperative, and the only transactions that take place on clear- ing accounts are those that are intended to settle the balances. Valuation and settlement of the balances take place in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. There are arrangements with Albania, Cambodia, Guinea, the People's Democratic Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Romania, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable ruble accounts with Cuba, Mon- golia, and Romania. The settlement of the debit balance with Romania is under negotiation. Bulgaria is a member of the CEFTA. There are inactive agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Tanzania. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 155 Administration of control Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the BNB, the customs administration, and the postal authorities. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Four commercial banks that are in bankruptcy have outstanding debt-service arrears. Residents carrying out extracting, processing, or other transactions involving precious met- als and stones as their business activity are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. These activities are included in the banking licenses of commercial banks. Residents carrying out external trade transactions with precious metals and stones are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. Natural persons may export and import freely precious metals and stones for personal use after declaring them to the customs authorities. All amounts exceeding personal use are subject to the trade provisions of the Customs Law. The export and import of precious metals and stones by mail are prohibited. This prohibi- tion does not apply to the BNB and the commercial banks. Residents and nonresidents may export domestic or foreign currencies without a declaration if the amount is less than lev 5,000. Exports of amounts between lev 5,001 and lev 20,000 must be declared; nonresidents must also declare the origin of the funds. In the case of exports exceeding lev 20,000, residents must obtain a permit from the BNB, while non- residents may export the currency after declaration, provided the amount does not exceed the imported and declared sums. In other cases, BNB permission is required. Yes. Yes. Resident and nonresident natural persons may import unlimited amounts of domestic and foreign currency. Amounts exceeding lev 5,000 must be declared to customs. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents may maintain these accounts in Bulgaria. Balances on these accounts earn inter- est at international market rates. The crediting and debiting of up to lev 5,000 in foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations. Transfers abroad may be made only by commercial banks after declaring, for statistical purposes, the reason for the transfer. For payments abroad, the declaration must be submitted on the same day; for receipts, within 10 days after the date of the bank statement. In cases where amounts exceed lev 20,000, the transferor must submit documentation as prescribed in BNB regulations. If the transfer is related to transactions for which BNB registration is needed, the commercial bank will verify the registration with the BNB. Approval is not required, but prior registration with the BNB is necessary in order for a resident to make a payment from Bulgaria to a personal account in a nonresident bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 BULGARIA Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Approval is not required, but prior registration with the BNB is necessary in order for a resident to make a payment from Bulgaria to a personal account in a nonresident bank. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The crediting and debiting of these accounts in amounts less than the equivalent of lev 20,000 are not subject to any regulations. However, transactions exceeding the equivalent of lev 20,000 are subject to BNB approval. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Imports of certain goods (dangerous substances with ozone-depleting potential, machinery and equipment for air conditioning using Freon 12, refrigerators, freezers, and other equip- ment using Freon 11 or 12) are banned for health and security reasons. A registration regime is in effect that applies to natural gas and scrap, in addition to goods previously covered under nonautomatic licensing, such as narcotics, arms, and nuclear weapons. Licenses are required for imports of military hardware and related technologies, natural gas, endangered flora and fauna, radioactive and nuclear materials, Pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesticides, unbottled alcohol, jewelry, rare and precious metals, asbestos, asbes- tos products, narcotic and psychotropic products, and gambling machines. There are free trade arrangements with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Import tariffs range from zero to 74% and are calculated on a transaction-value basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. The maximum rate of import tariffs for non- agricultural goods is 30%, and for agricultural goods it is 74%. Certain products are al- lowed temporarily to be imported without customs duties within specified quantities (active substances for the production of insecticides, fungicides, and herbicides; some agricultural machinery and their spare parts; flour; and live breeding animals). Other products are al- lowed temporarily to be imported without customs duties (equipment; spare parts; informa- tion technology products; chemicals for environmental and emissions control; special in- stallations for recovery of poisoned lands; substances, materials, and equipment for replacement of ozone-depleting technologies; equipment, machines, and spare parts used in mines and geological research activities; installations, equipment, and spare parts for pro- duction of energy from nontraditional alternative sources; and medical equipment for hu- man and veterinary medicine). The arithmetic mean tariff for all products is 15.2%. The 2001 Customs Tariff, which entered into force on January 1, 2001, reduced the simple unweighted average level of Bulgaria's MFN tariffs to 12.4% from 13.7%. The average ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 157 tariff for industrial goods was reduced to 10% from 11% and that of agricultural products to 22% from 24%. The number of tariff bands was also reduced to 22 from 25. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exports of gold, silver, platinum and articles thereof; solutions containing precious metals; electronic scrap and other products containing precious metals; precious stones; and some varieties of wood must be registered with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Letters of credit Export licenses Yes. Special licenses are required for the settlement of outstanding balances of multilateral clearing arrangements. Export licenses are required for exports of military hardware and related technologies, endangered flora and fauna, wild plants and animals, livestock, radioactive materials, crafts and antiques, seeds, untreated wood, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within two working days. There are free trade arrangements with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Payments abroad for trade purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. Payments abroad for trade purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. These remittances are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documentary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Foreign workers' wages may be transferred abroad, provided taxes have been paid. Other payments These payments are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. Above that limit, documentary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 BULGARIA Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Capital Transactions Except in cases specified by the Foreign Exchange Law (e.g., Articles 4(3) and (4)) and its supplementary provisions, prior registration with the BNB is required for transfers related to the following transactions between residents and nonresidents: (1) transactions with money market securities issued by nonresidents; capital market securities issued by non- residents; shares in nonresident companies; and all derivatives from the above-mentioned investments; (2) granting of financial credit between residents and nonresidents; (3) open- ing of deposit accounts of residents with nonresident banks; and (4) provision of collateral by residents to secure obligations between nonresidents or obligations of residents taken up toward nonresidents. Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. On collective investment securities Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Registration with the BNB is required when these are issued by nonresidents or purchased abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Prior registration with the BNB is required when a resident acquires equity participation in a nonresident juridical person and is eligible to exercise up to 20% of the voting power at a shareholder meeting. Registration in not required for investments in amounts up to lev 20,000. For investments exceeding this limit, the appropriate documents must be sub- mitted to a domestic bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions For purchases exceeding lev 20,000, the appropriate documents must be submitted to a domestic bank. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior permission of the MOF is required. Nonresidents may not purchase or own land. If they inherit land, they must dispose of it within a three-year period. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domestic transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 159 Maintenance of accounts abroad Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domestic transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective January 1, 2001, each bank is required to observe daily (1) a maximum ratio of up to 15% between its open position in any particular currency and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries; and (2) a maximum ratio of up to 30% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2001 January L The 2001 Customs Tariff came into effect, reducing (1) the simple unweighted average level of Bulgaria's MFN tariffs to 12.4% from 13.7%; (2) the average tariff for industrial goods to 10% from 11% and that of agricultural products to 22% from 24%; and (3) the number of tariff bands to 22 from 25. January L Each bank was required to observe daily (1) a maximum ratio of up to 15% between its open position in any particular currency and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries; and (2) a maximum ratio of up to 30% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a symmetrical bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU that must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. In addition, banks are allowed to charge an exchange commission of up to 2% on over-the-counter exchange for French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to effect payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Burkina Faso is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. Residents must surrender all foreign exchange earned abroad or domestically to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of receipt. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists within the framework of the WAMA between WAEMU members, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions is delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that require prior ap- proval from the MOF or the BCEAO involve residents' investments abroad, domestic ac- counts in foreign exchange, and resident accounts abroad. The BCEAO is also authorized 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 161 to collect—either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the postal administration, or judicial agents—any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Restructuring of arrears to Libya is in progress. Arrears owed to FSU countries were restructured in 1999. Imports of gold require prior MOF authorization. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manufactured articles containing minor quantities of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of gold are liberalized. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposit accounts in local banks. There are no restrictions on the importation by resident or nonresident travelers of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. These accounts may be held domestically, but prior approval is required. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No.- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 BURKINA FASO Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Domestic currency accounts Effective January 1,2001, nonresidents are no longer allowed to maintain these accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions from outside of the CFA-franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 million must be effected through an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required to monitor quality and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses were eliminated and replaced with preimport declarations issued for all import operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and above. Imports of ivory and fishing nets with a mesh smaller than three square centimeters are restricted. A technical import visa (certificat de conformite*) is required for sugar, insecticides, wheat and cereal flour, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, vegetable oil, milk, electrical batter- ies, food preserves, and rice. The Ministry of Commerce and the Promotion of Ventures and Crafts (until November 12, 2000, this was called the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Crafts) may, on the basis of criteria established by the MOF, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade-area agreement. The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a statistical tax of 1% and a communal solidarity levy of 1%. A temporary pro- tection tax of 15% (in certain cases 7.5%) may be levied on products upon the authorization of the WAEMU commission, if the effective protection rate has declined by more than 50%. All imports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a communal solidarity levy of 1%, and imports of certain goods that are also locally produced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 10% to 30%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are excluded from the repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which payments fall due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 163 Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes All export transactions of more than CFAF 5 million, except those between WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Export licenses were eliminated and replaced with preexport declarations issued for exports valued at CFAF 500,000 and over. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to special regulations. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical duty of 3%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Transfers not exceeding CFAF 300,000 do not require supporting documents. Residents are required to pay through a licensed intermediary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for the depreciation of direct investments require the approval of the MOF, since depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide tests for the transfer of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in foreign banknotes must be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Payments for medical costs and studies abroad are granted upon submission of supporting documentation to authorized banks. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. All proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be surrendered to an authorized dealer within one month of the due date. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 300,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must originate from borrowing abroad. Authoriz- ation is not required to buy securities issued in WAEMU member states under RCPSFM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 BURKINA FASO Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. The issuance and sale of securities in Burkina Faso must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign securities by residents and the transfer abroad of funds for this purpose are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent in Burkina Faso, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase freely commodity and security call and put options abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on which payment falls due is not more than 120 days after the date of shipment. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose is subject to prior MOF authorization. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered, as well as the payment due date. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the BCEAO acting on behalf of the MOF and substantiated by documentation. There are no controls on these credits, but they must be reported for statistical purposes. The necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized agent. There are no controls on repayments of loans, provided that the authorized agent handling the settlement is furnished with documentation attesting to the validity of the transaction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 165 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The regulations governing financial credits apply. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities; however, the funds involved must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment All investment abroad by residents is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. Authorization is not required for purchases of foreign securities whose issuance or offering for sale in WAEMU member countries has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investment Inward investments must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions The liquidation of investments abroad must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Reinvestment of the proceeds from the liquidation is subject to prior MOF authorization. If reinvestment is not authorized, the proceeds from the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Burkina Faso is unrestricted but must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Investments abroad by residents require prior authorization from the MOF. The investor must make the request in writing and designate the authorized intermediary that will exe- cute the payment. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by de- posit to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, it cannot be executed until after the period agreed to by the parties. Loans The regulations governing securities and investments apply. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In general, inheritances and dowries are authorized; endowments require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have acquired resident status must obtain prior approval from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfer into the country by immigrants This requires authorization of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The regulations governing lending to nonresidents apply. Borrowing abroad Authorized agents are free to borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are authorized to open accounts with their correspondent banks for settling transactions for their own account or the account of their customers. However, banks are not authorized to hold amounts in these accounts that exceed their current requirements. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations involve commercial credits. Prior authorization from the MOF is required for financial credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 BURKINA FASO Lending locally in foreign exchange There are no regulations that apply specifically to these transactions. However, prior MOF approval is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no distinction between resident deposit accounts, nonresident deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios. Open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Nonresident accounts January 1. Nonresidents were no longer allowed to maintain domestic currency accounts. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burundi is the Burundi franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Under a foreign exchange auction system, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (BRB) sells foreign exchange weekly to authorized dealers. At the end of each weekly session, a market exchange rate is obtained that serves as a reference rate for determining the buying and selling exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to operate officially in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. n.r. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements with these countries are effected through a clearing process, with balances paid in convertible currencies. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guesthouse in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling convertible currencies or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the BRB and in the case of nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the CEPGL. n.a. n.a. There are trade agreements with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. These agreements are not fu l ly operational due to the unfavorable economic situation. Regional agreements exist with Eastern and Southern African countries. Clearing agreements exist with members of COMESA and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the BRB; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to authorized banks. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 BURUNDI Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Natural juridical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the ministers responsible for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold in transit or mined by arti- sans in Burundi. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates in effect at the time of declaration. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the mining and customs departments. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. A license is required for anyone not holding a foreign exchange account. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in addition to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts The regulation pertaining to foreign exchange bureaus and foreign exchange accounts au- thorizes resident natural persons or legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited freely. Withdrawals of Burundi francs are unlimited. An airline ticket or other travel document is required for withdrawals of foreign exchange in the form of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks up to the equiva- lent of $5,000 an operation. Supporting documentation is required for transactions involv- ing payments for imports of goods and services, withdrawals of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks in excess of the equivalent of $5,000. Foreign exchange accounts may bear interest freely. Authorized banks may freely open foreign exchange accounts, but must forward copies of relevant documents to the BRB. Held abroad Prior BRB authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Any nonresident natural or juridical person may open a foreign exchange account in an authorized bank. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts may be debited and credited freely. These accounts may bear interest freely. Amounts of less than or equal to $5,000 may be withdrawn in banknotes on presentation of travel documentation. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 169 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Advance import deposits have been suspended since 1999. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import and payment declarations for items that are eligible or ineligible for foreign ex- change must be validated by a commercial bank. BRB approval is required in the case of waivers. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding $5,000 c.i.f. in value may, in principle, be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. This organiza- tion will also determine the value of goods used in the assessment of duty. There is no obligation to settle import transactions by LCs, since other payment methods are also permitted. This applies to imports of goods exceeding $5,000 in value. Import licenses and other nontariff measures For imports of goods exceeding $500,000 in value, an international call for bids is required before the validation of the license. Positive list A list of products eligible for foreign exchange has been drawn up in agreement with the World Bank and the BRB. The import of products not on the list is, however, also au- thorized. The distinction is in the financing, as products eligible for foreign exchange are financed by foreign exchange acquired on the market, while the other products are financed by the commercial banks' own holdings. Negative list Imports of 100% cotton, printed cloth (pagne) are forbidden. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Burundi is a member of the COMES A. There are five customs duty bands (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMES A. Im- ports of petroleum products are subject to duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, which replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. A flat-rate profits tax of 4% is applied to all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be collected within 30 days of the date of export declaration at cus- toms for shipment by air or within 90 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collec- tion of proceeds from exports of nontraditional products are set by the commercial bank carrying out the operation. Only proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton are required to be surrendered to the BRB. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A validation of the export declaration by a commercial bank is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Yes. Yes.. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 Export taxes BURUNDI Taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally applicable rate is 5%. For green cof- fee, the rate is set each crop season. The export tax on all other types of coffee is 31%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments All payments for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to administer payments for invisible transactions. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a domestic insurer. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading and storage costs are limited to amounts indicated by the invoice. Investment-related payments Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the profits distributed to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100% of their earnings after deduction of local expenses. Transfer of ren- tal income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for maintenance expenses). Transfers of income from rents and transfers of profits and dividends are suspended. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on payments of interest. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks and the BRB grant foreign exchange for private and public travel, respectively. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks grant foreign exchange for personal payments within the limits of their available foreign exchange. Pension transfers are effected through the Social Security Institute. Yes. The limit for medical costs is set at the equivalent of $2,000. Allowances for studies abroad are authorized on a case-by-case basis. Yes. Yes. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and work- ing in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70% of their net annual income (80% in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50% of their production). Indicative limits/bona fide test A work contract is required. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Quantitative limits Consulting and legal fees are limited to amounts indicated by invoices. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 171 Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require individual authorization. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase must be effected in foreign exchange. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents BRB authorization is required, Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The provision of foreign exchange for outward direct investments is suspended. Even with the emergence of the free foreign exchange market, banks are not authorized to sell foreign exchange for outward direct investments. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted do not require individual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Transfer of the proceeds from the sale of real estate is suspended unless the purchaser is the holder of an adequately funded foreign exchange account. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 BURUNDI To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad BRB approval is required. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted on foreign exchange accounts. Prior approval of the BRB is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 2002. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian riel. The dollar circulates freely and is used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official rate and the market rate. Adjustments to the official exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) to limit the spread between the official and parallel market rates to less than 1%. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the government and state-owned enterprises. The NBC quotes daily official rates, at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia buys and sells foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy and sell foreign exchange at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the NBC. The NBC is authorized to license commer- cial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. On February 19, 2002, Cambodia notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze any transfers of capital and assets of certain individuals and to freeze funds and other financial assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373, respectively. Yes. No. The import or export of raw gold is subject to prior declaration to the NBC if the value of each transaction equals or exceeds $10,000. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 CAMBODIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The export of means of payment exceeding $10,000 in foreign exchange or its equivalent in domestic currency by a traveler must be declared to customs officers at border crossings of Cambodia. Yes. Exports are subject to prior notification to the NBC. The regulations pertaining to exports of banknotes apply. Yes. There are no limits, but imports exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent must be declared on entry. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency There are no limits on the balances of these accounts, and the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations. All transactions may be settled in foreign currency. n.r. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts There are no laws prohibiting these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts Accounts belonging to persons and/or organizations known to be associated with terrorist activities are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Authorized intermediaries may be required by the NBC to submit proof of payment of im- ports by banker's order in support of their applications to purchase foreign exchange, and later may also be required to provide various documentary evidence confirming the entry of goods into the country. When the collection is made, the proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account with the domiciled bank in accordance with the existing law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 175 Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of volume, quality, and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of national security, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import duties and excise taxes are levied on selected imports. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be transacted through authorized domiciled banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Export proceeds must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank in accordance with the existing law. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed timber and logs. Exports of garments, gems, and rice to the United States and all exports of sawed timber are subject to quotas. Exports of antiques and several categories of logs are restricted. An export tax of 10% of the estimated market value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to trade and investments are not restricted, but they must be effected through authorized banks. There is no restriction on travelers purchasing foreign exchange in the foreign exchange markets, but exports of banknotes exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent in foreign or domestic currency must be declared to customs. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The proceeds from exports of services must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank, in accordance with existing laws. Surrender requirements Only proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no securities markets in Cambodia, and there are no specific laws on capital market securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 CAMBODIA On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.r. n.a. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized banks. There are no specific laws regarding approval, and capital transfers relating to investment abroad are not restricted. However, transactions involving $100,000 or more require prior declaration to the NBC. Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for Development of Cambodia, but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign direct investment taking place in accordance with the provisions of the investment law of Cambodia may be transferred freely. However, such transfers have to be made through authorized intermediaries, which must report to the NBC all amounts equal to or exceeding $100,000. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Transfer of assets These transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks must provide the NBC with periodic statements of transfers or settle- ments and of outflows and inflows of capital carried out between Cambodia and the rest of the world. Any export of foreign currency banknotes by authorized intermediaries is subject to prior declaration to the NBC. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. However, in the event of foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be implemented for a maxi- mum period of three months, imposing certain temporary restrictions on the activity of authorized intermediaries, particularly on certain transactions specified in the law, their foreign exchange position, or any loans in domestic currency extended to nonresidents. Banks may lend to nonresidents doing business within Cambodia. Banks are required to maintain at all times a maximum ratio of 20% between their overall exposure resulting from their operations with each individual beneficiary and their net worth. Yes. Yes. Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long position in any single foreign currency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of their net worth. Resi- dents and nonresidents are not treated differently. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 177 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no institutional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Cambodia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. February 19. Cambodia notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze any trans- fers of capital and assets of certain individuals and to freeze funds and other financial assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. Commercial banks are free to set commissions. However, these commissions do not apply to govern- ment exchange transactions, transfers in settlement of imports covered by an import decla- ration domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments of loans properly obtained, and travel allowance or representation expenses paid for official missions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market n.r. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Cameroon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros (from January 1, 2002; French francs through December 31, 2001), or the currency of any other Operations Account coun- try. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CEMAC are harmonized. There are clearing arrangements in the framework of the CEEAC. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries (i.e., the Postal Admini- stration and authorized banks). Exchange bureaus are also authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. There are no such restrictions under the legislation in force. However, in practice, deci- sions are taken in accordance with the resolutions of the international community (e.g., IMF, UN). Payments arrears n.a. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 179 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. Approval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy (MM WE) is required to hold gold in any other form, and it is normally granted only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the MMWE, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users. Exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization of the MMWE and the MEF, al- though such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of all coins and banknotes are subject to a prior declaration. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; reexportation above this ceiling requires documentation showing either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. Resident travelers are authorized to import into Cameroon a maximum of CFAF 300,000 to cover their initial expenses upon their return to Cameroon. Foreign currency Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks. Held domestically The opening of foreign exchange accounts exclusively for use by enterprises in the strategic sector (e.g., petroleum) that are also allowed to maintain their accounts in foreign currency is subject to the prior authorization of the MEF. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The opening and maintenance of accounts abroad are prohibited. n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Only accounts of CFA francs convertible into foreign currency are permitted. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Since the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside its zone of issue, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaound6 may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFA francs. Nonresidents are allowed to maintain bank accounts in euros. These accounts, held mainly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and their nonresident employees, may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 CAMEROON credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign currencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident euro accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident euro accounts; and (3) payments to residents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonresi- dents may not maintain accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Convertible into foreign currency Accounts may be credited and debited only in foreign currency. Approval required Blocked accounts Prior authorization of the MEF is required. n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Import payments must be made in accordance with the terms of the underlying contracts. However, advance payments (i.e., before the actual delivery of goods) are authorized up to 50% of the value of imports. Minimum financing requirements There are no restrictions on import financing. The amounts to be transferred must correspond to those contained in the relevant import declaration. Advance payment requirements Up to 50% of prefinancing is authorized; the balance is authorized only upon presentation of the relevant trade documents. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted if stipulated by underlying contracts. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions for domestic consumption valued at more than CFAF 2 million must be domiciled with a licensed bank. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Preshipment inspection All imports are subject to inspection by the Societe* g£n6rale de surveillance (SGS). Letters of credit LCs are allowed but are optional. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses are almost totally abolished. Importers of more than CFAF 2 million are required to fill out an import declaration with the SGS. The importing of certain products, which are included in a list established each year by the Ministry of Industrial and Com- mercial Development (MINDIC), remains subject to licensing. A list of products still subject to authorization is published annually by the MINDIC in the Programme g6n6rale des ^changes. Certain imports are prohibited for ecological, health, or safety reasons. These licenses are required mainly for long-term supply contracts. Quotas are applicable to imports by container. Import tariffs range from 5% to 30%. Import surcharges apply only to imports from countries outside the UDEAC. Taxes collected through the exchange system Surcharges apply only to imports from countries outside the UDEAC and to imports of maize meal and cement. State import monopoly There is a state import monopoly only for imports relating to sovereign expenditure (such as defense and security). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 181 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from the repatriation requirement. However, waivers may be granted by the President of the Republic to companies of a strategic nature and representing the national interest. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered within eight days. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation For exports of fresh food products (vegetables, fruits), a health certificate is required before shipment. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate docu- ments. Export transactions valued at CFAF 2 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for all exports valued at the equivalent of CFAF 2 million or more. Export licenses are issued by the MEF. Yes. Export taxes established in the Budget Law are collected by the Directorate of Customs. An export tax of 17.5% is applied to timber, and a rate of 12.5% is applied to the log equivalent of processed woods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles in excess of CFAF 2 million to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. With the exception of insurance expenses, agents may obtain authorization for the payment of all other trade-related expenses. The payment of these expenses is authorized upon presentation of invoices and related documents when the latter are not taken into account in the basic commercial contract. Yes. Yes. Distributed profits, dividends, and other interest paid by residents to nonresidents may be transferred. Yes. Transfers are authorized on the basis of conventions, contracts, minutes of annual meetings (as regards profits and dividends), and loan repayment schedules (as regards interest). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Authorization is required for any acquisition of foreign currency by residents traveling to countries other than member countries of the franc zone. The limit on foreign exchange allowances for travelers is the equivalent of $10,000 a per- son a trip. The number of trips allowed is not limited. Returning resident travelers are re- quired to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them within eight days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 CAMEROON Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners working in Cameroon are authorized to transfer up to 50% of their remuneration upon presentation of their pay slip and their most recent statement of income. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of the supporting documents provided. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of supporting documents provided. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within one month of the due date. Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered within one month of collection. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them within the following eight-day period. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital transactions between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are not controlled, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions are permitted, provided that they are declared to the MEF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. Transactions in connection with shares similar to securities, when their issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized, are exempt from authorization, but they must subsequently be reported. All foreign securities and titles embodying claims on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 183 nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Transactions in money market instruments require authorization from the MEF. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior authorization of the MEF is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MEF is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MEF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior declaration to the MEF is required, Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans of up to CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6% a year. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose nor- mal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Camer- oon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MEF and must subsequently be reported to it. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization and need only be reported: (1) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions; and (3) loans backed by a guarantee from the government. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The authorization of the MEF is required. To residents from nonresidents Prior declaration is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad (including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon) require prior approval of the MEF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits or do not exceed 20% of the fair market value of the company being purchased. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon (including those made by companies in Camer- oon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 CAMEROON subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon) require prior declaration to the MEF, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MEF has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which it may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon needs only be reported to the MEF, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previ- ously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MEF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MEF is required. Sale locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MEF is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Loans, except for those representing an authorized investment, those relating to the provi- sion of services or to the financing of commercial transactions, and those for amounts not exceeding CFAF 500,000, are subject to the prior authorization of the MEF. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The authorization of the MEF is required for transfers related to these operations. Yes. Yes. Prior authorization of the MEF is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Correspondent accounts are permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Only deposits in convertible CFA francs are permitted for nonresidents. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to promote orderly conditions in the market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are determined freely in the exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Canada is a member of the NAFTA. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada maintains certain restrictions on the transfer, remittance, or assignation of money, checks, bank deposits, and other financial instruments held by, on behalf of, or in an account of the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, Canada imposes restrictions on finan- cial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina and a freeze on disputed property situated in Canada, including the assets of all the successor states of the former Republic of Yugosla- via. Furthermore, a freeze is imposed on the assets of five former Yugoslav government officials indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 CANADA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are frozen, pursuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Although the sanctions against Libya have been suspended by the UN Security Council, Canadian regulations remain in effect. Transactions allowed by ministerial certificates are conducted on a routine basis. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits are required for the importation of certain agricultural products, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy, certain military arma- ments, and certain internationally controlled drugs. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered with it. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited, except from the United States. The prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico will be phased out by January 1, 2019. Yes. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usually in the form of bilateral re- straint agreements concluded under the MFA negotiated within the framework of the GATT, are also subject to quantitative restrictions. In accordance with the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and clothing is being liberalized in stages over a 10-year period beginning Janu- ary 1,1995. As a result of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada replaced all agricultural import restrictions with tariff rate quotas to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round (or under the NAFTA). Measures consistent with international trade obligations (e.g., countervailing duties) are in effect. Antidumping duties are imposed, taking into consideration competition policy factors as well as other economic costs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 187 Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Certain monopolies exist at the federal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement inter- governmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Dual Use List, and the Inter- national Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons to ensure the orderly export marketing of certain products that are subject to import limita- tions by other countries; to promote further processing in Canada (e.g., of logs and herring roe); and for nonproliferation purposes (i.e., chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, Angola and Myanmar are on the Area Control List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States, as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List, unless otherwise exempted. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tions, transportation, financial, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provision of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are generally subject to notification requirements but not to review requirements. For WTO investors, only direct acquisitions of businesses with assets exceeding Can$218 million are subject to review. Indirect acquisi- tions are no longer subject to review, except in rare circumstances. These provisions were multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round results. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 CANADA Different thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in culturally sensitive sectors. All investments subject to review are required to pass a test proving that they will be of net benefit to Canada. The establishment of a new business, the direct acquisition of a business with assets of less than Can$218 million, and the indirect acquisition of a business by investors from WTO members are not subject to review and need only be notified, except in cases when the Canadian business represents 50% or more of the value of the total assets acquired in the international acquisition. (The acquisition of a Canadian enterprise may be considered "direct" when it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation carrying on a Canadian business and "indirect" when it involves the transfer of control by share acquisition of a non-Canadian corporation that controls a Canadian corporation carrying on a Canadian business.) The direct acquisition of a business whose assets exceed the above-mentioned limit is re- viewed and assessed according to its net benefit to Canada, authorization being generally granted. All acquisitions or investments to establish a new business in cultural sectors such as book publishing, sound recording, and film production are normally subject to review. Reviewable cases must be resolved within 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer time period. In practice, most cases are resolved within 45 days. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents There are no controls; however, withholding taxes apply. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Banks are limited in the type of entities they can invest in domestically or abroad when the investment leads to the ownership of more than 10% of the voting rights of all shares outstanding, to the ownership of more than 25% of shareholders' equity, or to control of the entity. No controls are placed on the ownership of banks that specifically preclude nonresident ownership. Although the shares of large banks must remain widely held, new legislation allows fit and proper investors to own up to 20% of voting shares or 30% of any class of nonvoting shares, provided that no single shareholder or group of shareholders controls the bank. (Previously, there was a general prohibition on any person, resident or nonresident, directly owning more than 10% of all outstanding shares of any class of shares of a large bank or bank holding company.) Any person, including nonresidents, may set up or acquire a smaller bank, subject to ministerial approval. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to the euro at the rate of CVEsc 110.27 per €1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange with the general public are conducted by four corn- mercial banks: Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA), Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV), Banco Totta e Acores, and Banco Interatlantico. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. n.a. n.a. There are agreements with Cuba, under which Cape Verde is a net creditor. There are agreements with Angola, which are currently under negotiation. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV). the central bank. Current account transactions, investments in securities, and foreign bor- rowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberalized. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are external arrears to Russia and Spain, for which rescheduling negotiations are under way. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require prior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is permitted up to a limit of CVEsc 20,000 a person a trip. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 CAPE VERDE Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents traveling abroad may take out the equivalent of CVEsc 1 million (approximately $10,000). The importation of domestic currency is permitted up to specified limits. Foreign travelers may import foreign currency up to specified limits. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The operation of these accounts is free, but must follow BCV regulations. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be opened and operated as demand or term deposit accounts. Term deposit accounts may be maintained for no more than one year. Approval is required to open these accounts. Nonresidents may open nonremunerated demand deposit accounts in local currency. The operation of these accounts is free, but must follow BCV regulations. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports of goods exceeding CVEsc 100,000 and not involving payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to a preregistration requirement. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the BCV and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Licenses are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development- related equipment. Imports with a value of less than CVEsc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Positive list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs A tariff protection scheme is in effect, providing tariff protection in the order of 50% for certain domestically produced sensitive goods. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 191 Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months, but this period may be extended. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchases in excess of the equivalent of CVEsc 1 million in foreign currency a person a trip are subject to the submission of appropriate supportive documents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other con- tracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 CAPE VERDE Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward capital transactions, except those for investments in securities and foreign borrow- ing and lending in connection with current account transactions, must be approved in advance by the BCV. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted; however, they must be effected through the stock market or authorized dealers. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted; however, they must be effected through the stock market or authorized dealers. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations These instruments do not exist. Foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberalized. However, these transactions are subject to verification by the BCV. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All direct investments require a permit (Certificado de Investidor Externo) and must be registered with the BCV. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 193 To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad These accounts may be freely opened and operated. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions, Reserve requirements Accounts in foreign exchange constitute the assessment base. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5% is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury and for the expenses of students. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, as allowed by the fixed peg with the euro, exporters and importers may cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Central African Republic is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002), or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regula- tions of member countries in the CEMAC are harmonized. All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Ministry for the Econ- omy, Finance, Planning, and International Cooperation (MEFPIC). The Debt Directorate of the MEFPIC supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises (1) lending abroad; (2) the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and (3) inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the MEFPIC, which has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the repatriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal Admini- stration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 195 n.a. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and license-free imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CEMAC country to another. Exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC zone are prohibited. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from another CEMAC country. Imports of banknotes from outside the CEMAC zone are prohibited. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in euros. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Convertible into foreign currency n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required for coffee, cotton, and diamonds. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import declarations are required for all imports, and the import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are sub- mitted to the authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. Other nontariff measures Taxes and duties on sugar imports must be paid in advance. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CEMAC CET applies. There are four rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inputs, 20% for intermediates, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra- CEMAC tariff is 20% of the CET. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 30 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered within one month of collection. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection for coffee is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a declaration. Yes. An export tax is applied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 197 Yes. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Yes. Yes. Residents traveling to other countries of the franc and euro areas may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs (through December 31, 2001; from January 1, 2002, euros). Within the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes may be exported without limit. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following limits: (1) for tour- ist travel, CFAF 4 million a trip; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 10 million a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required to prove that such means of payment have been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of the limits are normally granted. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval may be required for these transactions, except in the case of payments for stud- ies abroad. The allowance for travel to countries outside the franc zone for medical treatment or educational purposes is CFAF 5 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers of pensions and payments for medical expenses, studies abroad, alimony, and family maintenance are allowed upon presentation of supporting documentation. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign nationals working in the CEMAC are allowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place within three months of the pay period concerned. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEFPIC, is limited to the ceilings set for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of limits are normally granted. Other payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for payments of consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. Proceeds of more than CFAF 5 million that are received from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. All proceeds over CFAF 5 million for services and income earned in those countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers between the Central African Republic, France, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control, provided that they are not related to activities prohibited under CEMAC regulations. Capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval and are restricted, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the govern- ment; and (2) shares similar to securities, when the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lending abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of juridical persons in the Cen- tral African Republic whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 mil- lion for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation. Foreign borrowing by the government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Di- rector of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of ju- ridical persons in the Central African Republic whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans consti- tuting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad, or between foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each re- payment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 199 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Direct investments of over CFAF 100 million abroad, including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Re- public and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central Afri- can Republic, require the prior approval of the MEFPIC within 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments must be declared to the MEFPIC within 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MEFPIC may request a postponement of up to two months from receipt of the declaration. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of investments requires prior approval from the MEFPIC, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at the same rate and are free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. All transfers and exchange operations are subject to a commission levied by the treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25% in the CFA franc zone and 0.5% outside the CFA franc zone. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the MOF. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Chad is an Operations Account country; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The exchange regulations of CEMAC member countries are harmonized. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF, but it has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instruc- tions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through authorized banks. The MOF supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency CHAD 201 Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the MOF and the Direc- torate of Geological and Mining Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance De- partment. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities; and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside that of the BEAC is prohibited. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an unlimited amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs (through December 31, 2001; from January 1, 2002, euros). This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation depends on the type of travel and may be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of Operations Account countries. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Resident Accounts Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the BEAC may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 CHAD Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to countries outside the BEAC area must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of sulfur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with four tariff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodi- ties at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Ac- count country must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions related to foreign countries and exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, nonresi- dents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 203 less than a year), are not permitted to send payments to countries that are not CFA franc zone members without prior authorization from the relevant authorities. They may, how- ever, receive payments from abroad. A simple declaration is required for transfers to coun- tries outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior authorization must be obtained from the relevant authori- ties. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to execute promptly all duly documented transfer orders and to dispatch cable transfers within 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Insurance on all imports with f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. Yes. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Travelers—civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc.—must use the following payment instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs (through December 31, 2001; from January 1, 2002, euros). This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is subject to prior authorization from the relevant administrative authorities. Residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for tourism, sporting events, participation in expositions, organization of fairs, participation in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a maximum of CFAF 4 million a person a trip for those over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents traveling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for business may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a maximum of CFAF 10 million a trip. Civil servants and government employees traveling on official business to countries out- side the CFA franc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tourists, but only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a limit of CFAF 4 million. For amounts exceeding these limits, higher exchange allocation is subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Yes. Yes. For countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation for medical costs is equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a limit of CFAF 5 million. For studies abroad, the exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is equivalent to a three- month scholarship plus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million. Higher exchange allocations are subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 CHAD Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Additional special controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; inward and outward direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad or in the CEMAC for amounts exceeding CFA 10 million requires prior authorization from the MOF. If authorization is granted, the transactions carry a state guarantee. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. CHAD 205 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the financing of commercial transactions either be- tween Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total outstanding amount of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior ap- proval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the financing of commer- cial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total outstanding amount of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF. Inward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. Loan transactions between residents and nonresidents exceeding CFAF 5 million require prior MOF authorization. By residents to nonresidents Loans granted by resident natural persons to nonresidents require central bank authorization and notification to the MOF 30 days before the loan is to be transacted. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 CHAD Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Authorized banks may freely borrow from abroad. These transactions, however, must be declared to the MOF and the BEAC 30 days in advance. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 27, 1977. Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. There are two foreign exchange markets, the formal and informal markets. The exchange rate prevailing in the two markets is the same, and agents may purchase or sell foreign ex- change in either market, except that capital transactions must be conducted through the formal foreign exchange market. The formal foreign exchange market consists of commer- cial banks and other entities licensed by the Central Bank of Chile (CBC). The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Free access is given for the purchase of dollars through forward contracts in the forward exchange market, but banks and other Chilean residents must inform the CBC. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Effective April 19, 2001, all prescription of currency requirements were eliminated. Prior to that date, the use of currencies listed in the Compendium of International Foreign Exchange Regulations was permitted, while operations in other currencies required a special authori- zation from the CBC. Settlements between Chile and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts main- tained with each other by the CBC and the central banks of each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Exchange market regulations and their administration are the responsibility of the CBC. No. No. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized dealers, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unrestricted, subject to normal export and import formalities. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 CHILE Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Juridical persons may hold foreign currency checking accounts, but they must take into account legal restrictions on investments, based on their commercial activities (i.e., pension fund administrators). In the case of checking accounts, the commercial banks must certify the domiciliation. Juridical persons subject to regulations on investment abroad (i.e., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Checking accounts may not be held by nonresidents because holders must be domiciled in the country. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective April 19, 2001, foreign exchange for all import payments may also be purchased in the informal foreign exchange market. Prior to that date, foreign exchange could be bought in the formal market within a period of 360 days after the obligation's expiration date had been documented on the import declaration. Effective March 1, 2001, import reports must be submitted to the National Customs Service (NCS). Prior to that date, payments made through the formal foreign exchange market re- quired a CBC-issued import report, which had to be obtained from and processed through a local commercial bank as intermediary. Effective March 1, 2002, import payments ex- ceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 must be reported to the CBC. Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural or juridical persons may engage in import activities. Preshipment inspection Effective March 1, 2001, import reports must be submitted to the NCS. Prior to that date, the CBC was allowed to reject import reports if prices were not market prices. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports above US$3,000 require an import report issued by the NCS. Imports of used motor vehicles are restricted. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to after-duty price margin limits. Safeguards, antidumping, and countervailing duty laws are applied. The uniform tariff is being reduced by 1 percentage point a year so as to reduce it to 6% (from 10% in 1999) by 2003. Effective January 1, 2002, imports are thus subject to a uni- form 7% tariff rate with a few exceptions (including items imported from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements CHILE 209 Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Effective March 1, 2001, the requirement to submit an export report to the CBC was abol- ished. Prior to that date, exporters had to submit an export report to the CBC through a commercial bank or directly on the CBC's webpage, establishing the exporter's identity and the terms of the operation. Effective March 1, 2002, exporters are required to inform the CBC of the use of proceeds exceeding US$10,000 within 30 days. Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Credit card use abroad Effective April 19, 2001, all remaining restrictions on these transfers were abolished. All transactions, however, must be reported to the CBC. Transactions must be conducted through the formal foreign exchange market and reported to the CBC. The CBC authorizes commercial banks to issue credit cards. Card users must pay balances due for purchases abroad with their own resources. However, under the concept of extraor- dinary expenditures, an individual may acquire foreign exchange in the formal market without declaring the purpose. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Effective April 19, 2001, all remaining controls on capital transactions were eliminated except for those on sales or issues of derivatives and other instruments locally by nonresi- dents. All capital transactions must be conducted through the formal market and reported to the CBC, however. Nonresidents may freely purchase locally based on Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations (CFER). To benefit from special taxation under Decree-Law 600, nonresidents may invest through foreign investment funds (FICE), which are formed by foreign capital and administered by a stock firm established in Chile and are subject to prudential regulations, including a five-year minimum holding period, and to a profit tax of 10%. Effective April 19, 2001, all controls were abolished and, through the Bolsa offshore mechanism, a nonresident may sell shares and other instruments from abroad. All transac- tions, however, must be reported to the CBC. Prior to that date, the following regulations were in effect: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 CHILE (1) The resources obtained through the sale of equities that were the property of foreigners under the American Depositary Receipts (ADR) mechanism had to be repatriated; (2) ADRs issued from equities directly acquired in the Chilean stock market (also called secondary ADRs) were subject to certain controls regarding the authorized period for ac- quiring stocks domestically and for the authorized period for acquiring foreign exchange after a local stock sale; (3) Issuance of foreign securities by nonresidents was subject to the same procedures that applied to domestic securities. Once the respective taxes had been paid, profits could be transferred freely without delay. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may issue equities and bonds abroad, and the associated foreign exchange operations must be effected through the formal exchange market. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective April 19, 2001, these investments no longer require authorization from or registration with the CBC. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Through the Bolsa offshore mechanism, a nonresident may sell bonds and other instru- ments from abroad. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective April 19, 2001, all controls were abolished. Prior to that date, these acquisitions were authorized for nonresidents, but there were regulations governing the mode of inflow. The associated capital inflow liquidation and the subsequent repatriation of proceeds had to be effected through the formal exchange market, acquisitions through FICEs were subject to a minimum holding period of five years in addition to a 10% profit tax, and financial investments were subject to the general income tax law. Effective April 19, 2001, nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Prior to that date, these transactions were not authorized, nor was it permitted to promote these or other financial services from abroad. To operate in the domestic financial market, the company had to be registered and established, and had to have brought in capital for operational purposes (the legal mechanism used was the creation of a Chilean agency of the foreign corporation). Funds that enter Chile through an FICE are subject to a minimum holding period of five years. Nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Prior to April 19, 2001, these transactions were not permitted. To operate in the domestic financial market, a company had to be registered and established locally and had to have brought in capital for operational purposes. Once this occurred, sales of collective investment securities were subject to the same domestic rules as any other investment, with no controls on the repatriation of profits. Effective April 19, 2001, all controls were abolished. Prior to that date, there were no con- trols for nonfmancial agents—pension funds were restricted by the type of fund (mainly to avoid leveraged and hedged funds), country risk, regulation, liquidity, experience of the fund, and participant's concentration. In practice, Chilean mutual funds (open funds) and investment funds (closed funds) are not offered directly abroad. To operate abroad, however, these funds must meet the existing regulations of the foreign country. Prior to April 19, 2001, domestically issued instruments could be sold to nonresidents, but funds had to be repatriated and capital committed by the FICE had to be invested in Chile for five years. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Effective April 19, 2001, most controls on derivatives and other investments were lifted. Prior to that date, the CBC authorized financial institutions to enter into foreign interest rate forwards, futures, and swaps in the local markets. Banks and third parties were authorized to trade forward contracts with foreign counter- parts involving Chilean currency (either the peso or the inflation-indexed Unidad de Fo- mento —UF). Banks were allowed to hedge credit risk associated with their fixed-income ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 211 portfolio and commercial loans with residents, using credit derivatives, for both local and foreign currency. Purchase locally by nonresidents The market is not well developed. Effective April 19, 2001, these operations are permitted, but must be performed through the formal exchange market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners must establish residence in order to sell or issue derivatives locally. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Effective April 19, 2001, these transactions are permitted freely. Prior to that date, the CBC regulated derivative operations undertaken on external markets in foreign currencies, inter- national interest rates, variable-return instruments, fixed-income instruments, and commer- cial loans within specified interest rate and currency limits. Speculative positions with de- rivatives abroad could be taken, but the currency had to be remitted and returned through the formal exchange market. Provisions relating to the hedging operations that banks may carry out were maintained, as well as those relating to derivative operations in variable return instruments. The latter could also be undertaken by nonbank financial institutions. Effective April 19, 2001, these transactions are permitted freely. Prior to that date, deri- vatives for currency and interest rates existed for operations with foreign agents in over- the-counter operations or with foreign banks. There was access to formal spot exchange markets for hedging purposes. Currency and interest rate options were allowed. Banks that were not permitted to issue credit derivatives could still engage in the trading thereof. Foreign exchange needed for these operations could be bought at either the formal or the informal exchange market, but had to be channeled through the formal market. Pension funds and insurance companies are not allowed to engage in international trade lending. Commercial credits may be contracted with foreign banks and financial entities, subject to a tax of 4% on interest if loans are provided by a financial institution or a tax of 35% if the creditor is not a financial institution. Operations by insurance companies, pension funds, and institutional investors are controlled. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effective April 19, 2001, banks are no longer required to obtain prior authorization from the CBC to issue guarantees on external credits received by domestic enterprises, financial credits, the issuance of documents abroad, or forward contracts with authorized agents abroad. Effective April 19, 2001, all controls were abolished. Prior to that date, foreign exchange for investment could be bought both in the formal or the informal market, but the funds had to be transferred through the former. If proceeds of such investments were brought back into the country, they had to be channeled through the formal market, but there was no surrender requirement. Investments by commercial banks were limited to a percentage of their effective capital and subject to minimum international risk ratings. Nonfmancial insti- tutions were allowed to make investments abroad, including the acquisition of real or fi- nancial assets and establishing agencies or branches abroad, as well as participation in companies and in contracts for the exploration and exploitation of natural resources. Foreigners may invest freely in Chile, based on Chapter XIV of the CFER. Investments over the equivalent of US$1 million may be made under Decree-Law 600, which requires signing a contract with the government. In this case, the investor may choose between the general income tax law and the guaranteed profit tax rate of 42%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 CHILE Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments made under Decree-Law 600 must be held in Chile for at least one year to be eligible for repatriation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective April 19, 2001, controls were abolished. Prior to that date, purchases were subject to a minimum investment requirement of the equivalent of US$10,000. Sale locally by nonresidents Repatriation of proceeds is not subject to control, but proof of the sale is required. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The following foreign exchange operations are permitted for banks and financial institu- tions: borrowing funds from the public through time deposits and savings; granting mort- gage loans and syndicated loans to residents; purchasing bonds issued abroad by residents; and issuing deposits, bonds, and promissory notes abroad that may be traded domestically or abroad. Some of these operations may be traded between local and foreign banks. Banks are also authorized to trade and issue derivatives on currencies, exchange rates, interest rates, and commercial credit using forwards, futures, and swaps, and to acquire options and credit derivatives. Nonbank financial institutions are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign time deposits within the margin for financial investment abroad. External cur- rent accounts are not controlled. Banks may purchase debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Time deposits are considered part of the margin for financial investments. Banks satisfying a capital ade- quacy ratio of at least 10% may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Deposits, loans, and other assets of Chilean banks with foreign banks of Chilean ownership may not exceed 40% of the capital and reserves of the foreign bank. Banks are authorized to extend loans to natural and juridical persons resident abroad for purposes of financing foreign trade operations between third countries. Chilean banks are authorized to provide guarantees or finance to foreign financial institu- tions, but only in operations related to the financing of international trade between third countries. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may grant loans or purchase securities denominated or expressed in foreign exchange provided they remain within the open position limits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are statutory ceilings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate. Foreign financial investments by commercial banks are subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Banks are allowed to issue CDs and bonds abroad. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot instru- ments, foreign investment, and assets and liabilities issued abroad or denominated in for- eign exchange. Additionally, there is a foreign financial investment ceiling of 40% of the capital and reserves of each bank. Financial institutions are allowed to compute excess foreign exchange flows to calculate their mismatch in local currency. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Investments by institutional investors are subject to prudential regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 213 Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Effective January 3, 2002, pension funds may invest up to 20% of their resources (previ- ously 16%) abroad, and investment in variable income securities of any one issuer may not exceed 13% (previously 10%) of the resources (this limit is expected to be increased to 15% on June 1, 2002, and abolished on September 1, 2002). Insurance companies may invest 3% of their reserves and risk net worth. The limits for general insurance companies differ from those of the life insurance companies only in the case of financial investment abroad. The limit for the former is 20%. Pension funds and insurance companies are allowed to cover only themselves against cur- rency volatility up to a maximum of their foreign financial investments on a currency-by- currency basis. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 19. All prescription of currency requirements were eliminated. Imports and import payments January 1. The tariff rate was reduced by 1 percentage point to 8%. March 1. Import reports were required to be submitted to the NCS (previously the CBC). April 19. Foreign exchange for all import payments may be purchased on the informal exchange market. Exports and export proceeds March 1. The requirement to submit export reports to the CBC was abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April 19. All remaining restrictions on these payments were abolished, although transac- tions must be reported to the CBC. Capital transactions April 19. All remaining controls on capital transactions were eliminated except for those on sales or issues of derivatives and other instruments locally by nonresidents. Controls on capital and money market instruments April 19. Limitations on sales of equities owned by foreigners through the ADR mechanism were eliminated, and nonresidents may sell shares and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations April 19. Bonds and debt securities were no longer required to be authorized by, or regis- tered with, the CBC. April 19. Most controls on derivatives and other instruments were lifted. April 19. The requirement that banks obtain prior authorization from the CBC to guarantee or back operations was eliminated. Controls on direct investment April 19. Controls on direct investments were eliminated. Controls on real estate transactions April 19. The minimum investment requirement of the equivalent of US$10,000 for local purchases by nonresidents was eliminated. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January 1. The tariff rate was reduced to 7% from 8%. Exports and export proceeds March 1. Export payments under US$10,000 do not need to be reported to the CBC. March 1. Import payments under US$10,000 do not need to be reported to the CBC. Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors January 3. The maximum amount that pension funds may invest in foreign instruments was increased to 20% from 16% of their resources, and the maximum investment in variable income securities of any one issuer may not exceed 13% (previously 10%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Chinese renminbi. The currency unit is the yuan. Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the renminbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a reference rate for the renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the yen based on the weighted average price of foreign exchange transactions on the previous day. In the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket, daily changes in the value of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar are limited to 0.3% on either side of the reference rate, as announced by the PBC. The daily movement of the renminbi relative to the Hong Kong dollar and the yen is limited to 1% on either side of the reference rate (daily movements beyond this limit must be reported). Effective November 21,2001, for the buying and selling rates of foreign exchange between designated foreign exchange banks and their customers, fluctuations must be limited to 0.16% in U.S. dollars and 1% in Japanese yen on either side of the reference rate. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) must be notified when the fluctuation of the Hong Kong dollar and Japanese yen exchange rates exceeds 1%. Banks may set limits on the fluctuations of other currencies on their own, but the bid-offer spread may not exceed 0.5%. The selling rate for cash and the spot exchange must be the same for all currencies. The spot buying rate for U.S. dollars may not exceed 1% of the mid-price for the spot exchange bid-offer rate. The cash buying rate for other currencies may not exceed 2.5% of the spot exchange bid-offer middle rate. No. No. The PBC allows on a trial basis forward purchase and sale of renminbi through the Bank of China against verification of authenticity of current account transactions with a maximum maturity of six months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange for pricing or settlement of transactions among residents is prohibited. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. The SAFE is responsible for foreign exchange administration, under the direction of the PBC. On April 1, 2002, the Chinese authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 2 15 Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Gold is subject to a system of centralized purchase and distribution. Mining companies must sell their gold to the PBC, and companies that use gold must buy it from the PBC. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Approval is required for enterprises to produce, process, or to engage in the production, processing, sale, or resale of gold products. Possession of gold or silver by individuals is subject to state controls. No organization or individual may appraise or use gold or silver. Private trading is prohibited. Controls on external trade Imports of gold require PBC approval. Gold may be imported by individuals for reasonable personal use only. Exports are subject to quota controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted The exportation of domestic currency is limited to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take their personal, legitimate foreign currencies abroad as follows: (1) except in special cases, residents may take foreign currencies in cash up to US$10,000 or its equivalent abroad; (2) amounts exceeding US$10,000 may be taken abroad in the form of traveler's checks or other payment certificates; (3) residents taking foreign currencies up to US$2,000 abroad do not need to apply for a License for Carrying Foreign Currencies Abroad (LCFCA). For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$4,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required; for amounts of more than US$4,000, the authenticity of the transaction must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been ob- tained. Nonresidents taking foreign currencies up to US$5,000 abroad do not need an LCFCA; for amounts of more than US$5,000 but less than US$10,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required; for amounts of more than US$10,000, the authenticity of the transac- tion must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been obtained. Residents and nonresidents may import up to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents importing more than the equivalents of US$2,000 and US$5,000, respectively, must declare the amounts to customs. Resident Accounts Domestically funded enterprises (DFEs) may maintain foreign exchange accounts for pur- poses of conducting approved current account transactions based on certain criteria set forth by the SAFE. Domestic establishments involved as agents with receipts and pay- ments, temporary receipts and payments, and temporary receipts and pending payments in external contract projects, large machinery and electric product exports, donations, and aid may maintain foreign exchange accounts with the approval of the SAFE and settle receipts and payments within the scope stipulated by the SAFE. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs) may open (1) foreign exchange settlement accounts for receipts and payments under the current account and for verified payments under the capital account with a maximum amount stipulated by the SAFE for each enterprise; and (2) foreign exchange specified accounts for receipts under the capital account, payments under the current account, and approved payments under the capital account. Natural persons may open foreign currency savings accounts with authorized banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Agencies requiring foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into foreign currency at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial documents when external payments are made. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents staying in China for a short time may open foreign currency savings accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Importers must preregister with the SAFE advance payments exceeding 15% of the con- tract amount and the equivalent of US$100,000; importers must present a registration form, valid proof, and commercial documents and carry out reconciliation procedures according to regulations. Advance import deposits The regulations governing advance payment requirements apply. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Documentary evidence (including import contracts, verification forms, customs declara- tions, invoices, and shipping documents) is required for importers to purchase foreign ex- change or to make payments from a foreign exchange account. If the imported product is subject to quota or other controls, a permit or import certificate must also be provided. If the product is subject to automatic registration, a completed automatic registration license must be provided as well. Import licenses and other nontariff measures An agreement is in effect for agricultural cooperation with the United States, which sets resolutions on the quarantine of wheat, citrus fruit, and meat between the two countries. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly To engage in foreign trade, all enterprises must obtain approval from the Foreign Trade Administration and register with the Administrations for Industry and Commerce, accord- ing to the law. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, foodstuffs, medicines, ani- mals, and plants that are inconsistent with Chinese regulations are restricted or prohibited. In addition, the importation of the following items is prohibited: weapons; ammunition and explosives; manuscripts; printed and recorded materials; and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests. Yes. Yes. There are four categories of import tariffs: the MFN tariff rate, the treaty tariff rate, the preferential tariff rate, and the ordinary tariff rate. The MFN rate applies to imports from WTO member countries or from countries or regions that have established an MFN agree- ment with China. The treaty tariff rate applies to imports from parties that have concluded a regional trade agreement with a preferential tariff clause. The preferential tariff rate applies to imports from countries or regions that have signed a special preferential tariff agreement with China. The ordinary tariff rate applies to all other imports. The following products are subject to state trading: wheat, maize, rice, crude and refined oil, vegetable oil, cotton, and tobacco and tobacco products. Imports of acrylic fibers, natural rubber, plywood, steel products, and wool are subject to designated trading. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Surrender requirements PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 217 Qualifying DFEs may retain foreign exchange equivalent to 25% of their annual cumula- tive export earnings in foreign exchange or of their cumulative total foreign exchange ex- penditures, whichever is less. Qualifying enterprises are (1) effective December 1, 2001, those that have annual export foreign exchange earnings in excess of the equivalent of US$2 million and foreign exchange earning expenditures in excess of US$200,000; (2) foreign trading companies whose annual export-import volume exceeds US$30 million, whose capital exceeds Y 10 million, whose export foreign exchange receipt rates are at least 95%, and whose document presentation rates are at least 80%; (3) production type enterprises authorized to engage in export-import operations whose annual export-import volume and capital exceed US$10 million and Y 30 million, respectively. FFEs may retain their export earnings provided these earnings do not exceed the maximum amount allowed for a foreign exchange account as prescribed by the SAFE; otherwise, the balance, if any, must be sold to authorized banks. The purchases and sales of foreign exchange by FFEs have been included under the banking surrender system. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Effective December 1, 2001, with respect to the forms for verification of foreign exchange export income, the two-month validity requirement has been abolished, and the amount granted under these forms has been increased. Enterprises that have earned foreign ex- change export income awards and enterprises that have met foreign exchange import tar- gets may draw on the basis of actual export business needs. In addition, the verification formalities for the foreign exchange export income of enterprises have been simplified, allowing enterprises to handle these formalities on a monthly basis. Also, a system of recording differences for future reference has been instituted. Products are allocated by means of quotas through a bidding system. In 2002, 25 products were allocated. Export duties are levied on 36 products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Nontrade payments by FFEs and DFEs are subject to the same provisions. Resident individuals are subject to different regulations. The payment of export commission proceeds is allowed according to the export contracts and the commission contracts. For contracts with a hidden commission exceeding 2% of the contract amount and a stated commission exceeding 5% of the amount and commis- sions exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000, prior approval of the SAFE is required. All commissions below these limits may be settled directly through a bank. Proof of transaction is required for all trade-related payments. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits for commissions. Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The foreign exchange requirements of companies within their budgets are provided accord- ing to the limits prescribed by the MOF. There are no restrictions on payments for travel of FFE staff, whereas the amount of foreign exchange that may be bought by other corpora- tions must be declared in accordance with MOF standards. When residents travel abroad as part of touring parties, their overseas group fees may be contracted and remitted abroad by touring agencies. Verification and approval of the SAFE are required for amounts exceeding the specified limits. Residents traveling to Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR for personal reasons may pur- chase up to the equivalent of US$1,000 in foreign currencies at authorized banks; residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA traveling to other countries or regions (including Taiwan Province of China) may pur- chase up to US$2,000 in foreign currencies. For amounts exceeding these limits, SAFE verification is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$1,000 for payments of medicines and medical equipment abroad; for larger amounts, they must submit appro- priate documentation to the SAFE for verification. Effective December 1, 2001, persons paying for their own studies abroad (college level or higher) are allowed a onetime pur- chase of foreign exchange of up to US$20,000 (previously US$2,000). Larger amounts require SAFE verification. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of earnings and tax clearance are required. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test For transfers in payment of subscriptions and membership fees, a proof of transaction is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign grants and financial aid received by domestic establishments, and foreign exchange earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts, may be maintained with the approval of the SAFE. Foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of in- ternational organizations, affiliates of foreign juridical persons, resident persons, and for- eign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange. FFEs may retain foreign exchange earn- ings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the maximum limit allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to authorized banks. The purchase and sale of foreign exchange by FFEs have been included under the banking surrender system. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase only B shares. The face value of B shares is denominated in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. These shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and may be bought only by foreign investors. Effective February 22, 2001, domestic investors were allowed to purchase B shares with existing foreign currency deposits, and, effective June 1, 2001, these shares may be purchased with new foreign currency deposits. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are limited to B shares. Purchase abroad by residents Institutions must obtain prior approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, SAFE verification of the source of the funds, and approval from the SAFE for remittance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 219 Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval by the China Securities Regulatory Committee is required. abroad. Permission is currently granted only to listed companies (H, S, L, and N shares) that are reducing their holdings of their own stock. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Banks authorized by the PBC may purchase foreign bonds but must use their own foreign exchange funds and are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval by the SAFE is required for all such transactions. Prepayment of external debt is prohibited when there is no early repayment clause in bor- rowing contracts. If there is such a clause, borrowers may repay such debt in advance using their own foreign exchange, with SAFE verification. The purchase of foreign exchange for the purpose of advance repayment is prohibited. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Only financial institutions that are approved by the PBC and carry out foreign exchange trading operations for own account or on behalf of customers may purchase and sell de- rivative instruments without prior SAFE approval. The purpose of such purchases or sales may be for hedging of risk only. Speculative trading is not permitted. Nonfmancial institu- tions may engage in such activities through financial institutions as part of approved opera- tions without prior approval. Prior SAFE approval must be obtained if these transactions are required to be made with foreign institutions. Trading may be done directly with for- eign institutions for derivatives transactions under the provisions of the debt of FFEs with- out approval; however, debt provision modification procedures must be completed after the fact. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Effective September 19, 2001, restrictions have been liberalized on purchases of foreign exchange for advance repayments of domestic and foreign currency loans, loans converted from foreign debt, and foreign debts, as follows: if the loan contract contains an advance repayment clause, the party may use its own foreign exchange to make advance repayment, subject to SAFE approval; and, subject to SAFE approval, a party may purchase foreign exchange to make advance repayments of loans, including (1) loans made with approval of the State Council; (2) loans needed for enterprise debt restructuring, for permanent or tem- porary closure, or for merger or transfer of ownership due to a change in national policy; and (3) loans where advance repayments are deemed necessary by a court. Financial institutions authorized by the PBC may lend to overseas institutions or contract overseas credits. Only DFEs are permitted by the SAFE to engage in external borrowing, and authorized industrial and commercial enterprises or groups may engage in external borrowing of commercial credit. For credits with over a one-year maturity, the loan must be part of the state plan for use of foreign capital and must be approved by the SAFE. Financial institu- tions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing are free to conduct short-term foreign bor- rowing, with maturities of one year or less, within the balance approved by the SAFE. Spe- cific, transaction-based approval is not required, but the borrowing must be registered with the SAFE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Forward LCs with a maturity of less than one year are included in the category of short- term credits, while those exceeding one year are included in medium- and long-term inter- national commercial loans. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents without obtaining approval but must register the borrowing with the SAFE. If there are no provisions on advance repayment in the lending contract, no advance repay- ment of debt is permitted. If there are provisions on advance repayment, enterprises may redeem debt with their own foreign exchange, provided that approval has been granted by the SAFE, but they may not purchase foreign exchange for that purpose. Renminbi credits extended by banks to domestic institutions should be used only for productive purposes and may not be used to purchase foreign exchange for debt service. At the same time, domestic banks are prohibited from accepting foreign bank guarantees for renminbi loans to DFEs. However, domestic banks may accept guarantees from foreign banks to extend renminbi loans to FFEs. Financial credits The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior SAFE approval is required for financing guarantees provided by banks and all guaran- tees provided by other institutions (with the exception of FFEs). Prior approval is not re- quired for bank-provided nonfmancing guarantees. Registration must be completed for all foreign guarantees. Specific, transaction-based approval by the SAFE is required when the guarantee is exercised. To residents from nonresidents FFEs may accept guarantees from foreign institutions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign exchange is provided for the investment after (1) examination of sources of foreign exchange and an assessment of the foreign exchange risk involved, (2) approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), and (3) approval and registration of outward foreign exchange remittance with the SAFE. Effective September 19,2001, foreign exchange may be purchased for investments abroad in strategic foreign projects that have been approved by the State Council, projects that entail importing mate- rials into China for processing, and foreign aid projects. Nonresidents are free to invest in China as long as they meet requirements under Sino- foreign joint-venture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by the MOFTEC. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as exchange control is concerned. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct investment in some industries is prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Prior approval from the original review and approval department is required for liquidation. SAFE verification is required to purchase foreign exchange to remit funds belonging to foreign investors after liquidation. Controls on real estate transactions The regulations governing direct investment apply. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents With SAFE approval, foreign exchange may be purchased for remittance abroad using renminbi obtained by nonresidents from the sale of commercial real estate purchased origi- nally with foreign exchange. Foreign exchange may not be purchased using renminbi ob- tained from the sale of commercial real estate purchased originally using renminbi. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 221 In the case that a resident's directly related family member abroad encounters illness, death, or unexpected disaster, the resident is allowed to purchase and remit abroad up to US$1,000 or its equivalent, once the resident has valid, notarized proof or proof from the Chinese embassy or consulate; an application from the patient's local agency (work unit) or prescription from the hospital; the relevant documents from the resident's work unit (if without a work unit, from the local subdistrict office or the people's government depart- ment above the town level); and proof of the documents related to foreign exchange pay- ments. As for other foreign exchange purchases, amounts of up to US$500 or its equivalent may be provided by the bank. For a onetime purchase of foreign exchange for private pur- poses of an amount exceeding the stipulated standard and up to US$50,000, application to the local SAFE offices against specific documented proof is required; after verification by the local SAFE office, the foreign exchange needed may be purchased from the bank and remitted or taken abroad. When a onetime purchase exceeds the stipulated standard or US$50,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank provides the foreign exchange. Remittances from a resident's domestic foreign currency account for payments for gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a onetime amount of less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly through a bank. For amounts of more than US$10,000 but less than US$50,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with stipulated documented proof, and, after verification by the local SAFE office, remittances may be made through a bank. For amounts of more than US$50,000, the transaction must be re- ported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Transfers of a resident's domestic foreign currency cash or deposits from a resident's foreign currency cash account for payments of gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a onetime amount of less than US$2,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly by a bank. For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$10,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with specific documented proof and corresponding customs declaration documents before remittances may be made by a bank. For amounts above US$10,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. If the foreign currency income from donations and legacies needs to be paid in foreign currency cash or converted into renminbi and if the onetime amount is less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, payments may be made directly by banks. When the amount is above US$10,000 but less than US$50,000, relevant documented proof must be provided to the banks or the SAFE. For inherited foreign currency, the required documentation must in- clude proof of identification and authenticity, a notarized statement, and proof of tax clear- ance abroad. For household use of foreign currency, proof of identification, authenticity, and kinship are required. For foreign currency donations, proof of identification and au- thenticity and a donation agreement are needed. Banks may make the payments after veri- fying the documented proof and recording the transaction. When the amount is above US$50,000 but less than US$200,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with documented proof, and after the verification of authenticity by the local SAFE office, payments may be made through banks. For amounts above US$200,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with documented proof and the transaction must be re- ported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Routine foreign exchange revenues including retirement and pension funds may be remit- ted abroad. Funds falling under capital items, such as proceeds from selling residential property, may not be converted into foreign exchange for remittance abroad; rent income, however, may be converted for remittance abroad. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The regulations governing commercial credits apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Registration with the SAFE is required for domestic banks to open foreign exchange ac- counts abroad. As for domestic nonbank financial institutions and nonfmancial enterprises, prior approval by the SAFE is required. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Lending is mainly subject to review of qualifications by the PBC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Borrowers need to register ex post the transaction with the SAFE and should get a permit from the SAFE to repay the principal. China does not issue securities denominated in foreign currency. There are different reserve requirements for deposits in renminbi and in foreign currency. A reserve requirement of 6% applies to renminbi deposits of Chinese-funded banks and foreign-funded banks. A reserve requirement of 2% applies to foreign exchange deposits of Chinese-funded banks. Different reserve requirements apply to foreign exchange depos- its of foreign-funded banks—for deposits with maturities of less than three months, the requirement is 5%; for deposits with maturities of three months or more, the requirement is 3%. Required and excess reserves on renminbi deposits are remunerated at an annual rate of 2.07%. Reserves on foreign currency are not remunerated. The ratio of all liquid foreign exchange capital to all liquid foreign exchange liabilities may not be less than 60%. The ratio of the credit balance for a single borrower to a bank's net capital may not exceed 10%. Bank equity investment should not exceed the difference between bank capital and manda- tory paid-in capital. Nonbank financial institutions' total equity investment (excluding trust accounts) should not exceed the difference between their capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Investment in foreign securities other than equities on foreign securities markets by banks is subject to quarterly approval by the PBC. In banks by nonresidents PBC approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits For financial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the foreign exchange working capital. As authorized by the highest level of management, financial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but this should not exceed 1% of the foreign exchange working capital or foreign exchange operating funds. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2001 November 21. For the buying and selling rates of foreign exchange between designated foreign exchange banks and their customers, fluctuations must be limited to 0.16% in U.S. dollars and 1% in Japanese yen on either side of the reference rate; the SAFE must be notified when the fluctuation of the Hong Kong dollar and Japanese yen exchange rates exceeds 1%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and export proceeds PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 223 December I. The two-month validity requirement on the use of foreign exchange export income verification forms was abolished and the amount granted under foreign exchange export income verification forms was increased. Enterprises that have earned foreign ex- change export income awards and enterprises that have met foreign exchange import tar- gets were permitted to draw on the basis of actual export business needs. In addition, the verification formalities for the foreign exchange export income of enterprises were simpli- fied —allowing enterprises to handle formalities on foreign exchange export income on a monthly basis—and a system of recording differences for future reference was instituted. December 1. DFEs were allowed to open foreign exchange settlement accounts with 25% of their retained foreign exchange earnings if they have annual foreign exchange earnings of more than US$2 million or annual foreign exchange expenditures of more than US$200,000. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers December 1. Persons paying for their own studies abroad (college level or higher) were allowed a onetime purchase of foreign exchange of up to the equivalent of US$20,000 (previously US$2,000). Larger amounts require SAFE verification. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 22. Domestic investors were allowed to purchase B shares with existing foreign currency deposits. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment June 1. Domestic investors were allowed to purchase B shares with new foreign currency deposits. September 19. Restrictions were liberalized on purchases of foreign exchange for advance repayments of domestic and foreign currency loans, loans converted from foreign debt, and foreign debts, as follows: if the loan contract contains an advance repayment clause, the party may use its own foreign exchange to make advance repayment, subject to SAFE ap- proval; and, subject to SAFE approval, a party may purchase foreign exchange to make advance repayments of loans, including (1) loans made with approval of the State Council; (2) loans for enterprise debt restructuring, for permanent or temporary closure, or for merger or transfer of ownership due to a change in national policy; and (3) loans where advance repayments are deemed necessary by a court. September 19. The purchase of foreign exchange was authorized for investments abroad in strategic foreign projects that have been approved by the State Council, projects that entail importing of materials into China for processing, and foreign aid projects. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 1. The Chinese authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism in ac- cordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong SAR is the Hong Kong dollar. Commemorative gold coins of HK$ 1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by collectors and seldom circulate. The authorities do not maintain margins in exchange transactions. The currency board system in Hong Kong SAR, adopted on October 17,1983, requires the monetary base to be backed by the reserve currency (i.e., the U.S. dollar) at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 to US$1. In Hong Kong SAR, the monetary base includes the amount of banknotes and coins issued, the balance of clearing accounts of the licensed banks held with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) (i.e., aggregate balance), and the outstanding amount of exchange fund bills and notes. Operating under the rule-based currency board system, the HKMA has undertaken to issue additional exchange fund paper only when there is an inflow of funds, but the size of the program is allowed to expand along with the interest payments on such papers. The issue and redemption of Certificates of Indebtedness, which provide backing for bank- notes issued by the note-issuing banks, are required to be made against U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 to US$1. The issue and withdrawal of coins are settled against the U.S. dollar at the same fixed rate. An explicit convertibility undertaking was made by the HKMA for licensed banks to convert Hong Kong dollar balances in their clearing accounts into U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.75 per US$1. This convertibility rate moved by 1 pip (i.e., HK$0.0001) per calendar day until, on August 12,2000, it reached the rate of HK$7.80, where it has remained. No. No. The forward exchange markets operate on private sector initiatives, and the government has no official role. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with the relevant regulations under the UN Sanctions Ordinance, UN sanc- tions are implemented by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR government on the instructions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China. Payments arrears No. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 225 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Import licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fulfillment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. No. In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, the import of ozone-depleting substances is subject to licenses and quota arrangements. Imports of rice are also subject to licensing and quota arrangements to ensure a stable and sufficient supply of the staple food in Hong Kong SAR. In accordance with Hong Kong SAR's commitment under the Asia Pa- cific Economic Cooperation, the rice trade will be fully liberalized by 2010. All imports are free of duty, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is lev- ied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Export licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fu lf i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. Exports of certain textile articles to some importing countries are subject to quotas as a result of the quantitative restrictions maintained by these countries on textile exports from Hong Kong SAR. According to the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, textile quotas will be abolished by 2005. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds There are no limitations on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distributions from trusts, and dividends is not taxed in Hong Kong SAR; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong SAR is subject to a profits tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is not subject to the salary tax. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorpo- rated in Hong Kong SAR or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securities, and fu- tures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry within one month of establishing a business in Hong Kong SAR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, Limited, which oversees the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, and the Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company, imposes disclosure and position limits on derivative products. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. The limits and restrictions stated below are set by the HKMA for prudential reasons only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 227 Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition No distinction is made between resident and nonresident deposit accounts. No distinction is made between local and overseas investments. Authorized institutions incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not acquire shares worth more than 5% of the capital base of the institution at the time of acquisition without the approval of the HKMA. This restriction does not apply if the share capital (1) is held as security for facilities granted; (2) was acquired through an underwriting or subunderwriting contract for a period not to exceed seven days; or (3) was acquired through satisfaction of debts, in which case the share capital must be disposed of at the earliest suitable opportu- nity, but not later than 18 months after its acquisition. No authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may purchase or hold any inter- est in foreign or domestic land in excess of an aggregate value of 25% of the capital base of the institution. This restriction does not apply to (1) land that is necessary for conducting the business of the institution or providing housing or amenities for its staff, subject to HKMA approval; (2) interest in land that was mortgaged to the institution to secure a debt due to the institution; (3) interest in land that accrues after the institution has come into possession of the land, provided that the interest be disposed of at the earliest suitable op- portunity, but not later than 18 months after acquisition. The aggregate holdings of share capital and interests in land, together with the outstanding amounts of all facilities owned by directors (or their related parties) of an authorized insti- tution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not at any time exceed 80% of the institution's capital base. No person shall become a majority shareholder controller, a minority shareholder control- ler, or an indirect controller of an authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR without HKMA approval. Any person who becomes such a controller must notify the HKMA within 14 days. All authorized institutions are required to report to the HKMA their foreign currency posi- tions (including options) monthly. Locally incorporated institutions are required to report their consolidated foreign currency positions. The aggregate net overnight open position (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of individual currencies) should not nor- mally exceed 5% (and, in any event, not more than 15%) of the capital base of any institu- tion, and the net overnight open position in any individual currency should not exceed 10% of the capital base. For subsidiaries of foreign banks, where the parent bank consolidates the foreign exchange risk on a global basis and for which there is adequate home supervi- sion, the HKMA may accept higher limits. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA re- views and monitors their internal limits, which are usually set by their head offices and home supervisory authorities. In addition to these limits, locally incorporated institutions are required to provide regula- tory capital for foreign exchange risk such that their adjusted capital adequacy ratio (incor- porating market risk) should be above the respective statutory minimum ratios. For the Mandatory Provident Fund schemes, at least 30% of a constituent fund must be held in Hong Kong dollar-denominated currency investments, as measured by effective currency exposure. There is no m in imum limit on the amount that insurance companies may hold in invest- ments in locally issued securities. However, insurance companies carrying on direct general insurance business locally are required to maintain assets in Hong Kong to match their liabilities from such insurance business. The form of assets is not limited to local securities and may be in the form of cash, bank deposits, or landed properties. Insurance companies with long-term foreign currency liabilities must enact prudential provisions to limit the effects of exchange rate changes on their asset base unless these liabilities are covered by adequate foreign currency holdings not subject to exchange risk. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Colombia is the Colombian peso. Various commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The Banco de la Republica (BR) conducts foreign exchange transactions with the MOF and authorized intermediaries. All foreign exchange operations take place at a market- determined exchange rate. The BR quotes buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Monetary policy is based on inflation targeting. The Superintendency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates (i.e., the weighted average of buying and selling effected by foreign ex- change market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions and forward transactions). The government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other ex- penditures included in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized intermediaries. Surtaxes include a 7% surtax on remittances of earnings applied to existing oil and non-oil foreign investments, unless earnings are reinvested within five years; and a 3% withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers is applied. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are permitted to buy on international markets forward cover against exchange rate risks with respect to foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the BR. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in dollars. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments and receipts are normally effected in dollars, but residents and financial intermediaries are allowed to carry out operations in any currency. Settlements between Colombia and the other LAIA countries may be made through ac- counts maintained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Colombia maintains reciprocal credit agreements with China. The MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsi- ble for applying penalties for any violation of the trade regulations. The Superintendency of Societies and the Superintendency of Banks are also responsible for the enforcement of exchange regulations. The authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial and mortgage banks, financial corporations, commercial finance companies, the Financiera Energ&ica Nacional, the Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), sav- ings and loans corporations, financial cooperatives, and stock brokerage firms. The BR keeps an accounting record both of foreign investments in Colombia and of debts abroad and tracks the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, and commissions. International security restrictions No. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 COLOMBIA Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The BR makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the London gold market during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. Except for the BR, all imports and exports of domestic currency should be effected through authorized intermediaries. For travelers, the maximum amount allowed is the equivalent of US$10,000—this limit is increased annually based on the consumer price index. For amounts exceeding this limit, a customs report must be filed. Yes. Yes. Individuals entering the country with foreign exchange or securities denominated in foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000 must report it to customs. If the transac- tion is to be carried out through foreign exchange houses, the limit is US$3,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Such accounts are restricted to travel agencies, international transport companies, com- panies and stores in free-trade areas, nonresident companies and individuals working in Colombia, diplomatic missions, and employees of multilateral entities. Residents may maintain foreign accounts registered at the BR (compensation accounts), funds from which may be used to pay for imports, to invest abroad in financial assets, or to carry out any other foreign exchange operations. Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the BR. Special foreign accounts (special compensation accounts) are authorized for transactions among residents. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive current account deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR quarterly. Deposits in these accounts need not be registered at the BR; they may be used only for trade-related transactions. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the BR quarterly. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 231 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad or make payments with an interna- tional credit card. However, there is a special regime whereby foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from author- ized foreign exchange intermediaries, but these enterprises may opt out of this regime. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The following types of imports must be registered at the Ministry of Foreign Trade (MFT): imports under the previous system of licensing; imports subject to a m in imum content approval; and special import-export systems. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Most imports are free. There is a global free list applicable to all countries. Imports of the following goods are subject to licensing requirements: fresh, chilled, or frozen chicken and chicken offal; prepared and preserved chicken; pharmaceutical and chemical products; weapons and munitions; tires; ropes and strings; special airship vehicles; and warships. In addition, imports of the following are nonreimbursable: goods exempted from customs taxes; secondhand goods; imperfect or residual goods; goods under the annual licensing system; and goods submitted by an official agency, except for gas and urea. Reimbursable imports involve purchases of foreign exchange from foreign exchange inter- mediaries, including imports of machinery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and com- modities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automati- cally. However, import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by the MFT to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and regis- trations are valid for six months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, and the precursory substances for drugs. These import licenses are valid for two months. Import licenses for capital goods are good for 12 months. Import licenses may be extended only three times, except for those for the precursory substances for drugs. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to the GET of the Andean Pact. Effective January 1, 2001, a 1.2% customs surcharge was introduced increasing the overall level of simple average tariff, including other duties and charges, to 12.8%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized exchange intermediaries within six months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the BR. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free-trade areas are not re- quired to surrender their foreign exchange. Effective January 1, 2001, upon surrendering export proceeds in the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates at any of three rates— 2.25%, 2.5%, and 3.0% of domestic value added —depending on the product, the country of destination, and the date of shipment. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: (1) a m in imum surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution on the basis of international market prices; (3) the National Coffee Committee—composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Colombian Coffee Growers' Association—may establish a physical coffee contingent on the basis of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 COLOMBIA international coffee prices; and (4) the National Coffee Committee establishes a domestic price for export-type coffee expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the public sector may be surrendered to financial intermediaries. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. No. A 3% withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts for personal services and other transfers is applied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, or patents should be registered with the MFT for statistical purposes only. Capital must be registered with the BR before profits may be repatriated. Annual transfers of profits abroad and repatriation of capital are not restricted, but they may be temporarily restricted if international reserve holdings of the BR fall below the equivalent of three months of imports. The limit on contractual interest rates for public debt is determined by the BR, which sets the maximum applicable rate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Purchases of these instruments, whether locally by nonresidents or abroad by residents, must be registered with the BR. Purchases by nonresidents may not be greater than 20% of the total issue. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Nonresidents must establish an investment fund to participate in the stock market. Any portfolio investment must be registered with the BR. Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Banks. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be registered with the BR. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be effected through the authorized exchange market. Foreign ex- change may be bought in the free market, but if the amount is greater than US$500,000, the transaction must be registered with the BR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 233 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an investment fund in order to purchase these securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective December 21, 2001, securities issued by nonresidents must meet the conditions established in Resolution 933. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the BR and the issue requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Securities. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an investment fund in order to purchase these securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. These transactions must be reported to the BR and require the prior approval of the Superintendent of Securities. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the BR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Domestic risks must be covered in the local market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Only foreign financial institutions classified as professional brokers and registered with the international agencies responsible for the regulation and control of forward and futures operations in the OECD countries are authorized to engage in these transactions. Residents are allowed to make these transactions with professional brokers, as described above. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits must be registered with the BR. The nonremunerated deposit requirement for exter- nal financing is zero percent of the disbursement of any loan, and the period is determined by the BR. Anticipated payments and export credits over US$10,000 with maturities longer than 12 months are subject to deposit in U.S. dollars. Exempted from the deposit require- ment are the financing of imports; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colom- bian exporters for up to 12 months for the maximum amount of US$550 million; credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian investments abroad; the disbursement of soft loans from foreign governments; external credits to finance margin calls in forward and options operations; and external loans transacted by public entities engaged in discounting. In the case of prepayment of export credits, exporters must prove that over 85% of the declared value has been in fact exported. All public financing (borrowing and bond issues) in foreign currencies, including by the central and local governments, is also subject to nonremuner- ated deposit. There is a limit determined by the BR on contractual interest rates for the public sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the MOF. For loans to the government, or guaranteed by the gov- ernment, the following are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy, prior consultation with the Committee of the Congress on Public Credit, and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the beginning of negotiations. Residents are allowed to engage in international lending through the foreign exchange market. These transactions must be reported to the BR. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be registered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 COLOMBIA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be effected through the formal exchange market. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the BR, must be effected through the formal exchange market, and are subject to deposit requirements. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments should be registered with the BR. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Up to 100% ownership in any sector of the economy—except in defense and waste disposal—is allowed. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sectors. Repatriation of proceeds must be registered with the BR. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases should be registered with the BR. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These transactions must be effected through the authorized exchange market. Foreign ex- change may be bought in the free market to invest abroad, but if the amount is greater than US$500,000, the transaction must be registered with the BR. Yes. Yes. Only loans transacted with foreign financial intermediaries are to be reported to the BR, and these must be channeled through the foreign exchange market. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks must inform the BR. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are not subject to reserve requirements. Credit institutions may invest in financial assets abroad, except in those issued by their subsidiaries. Nonresidents may purchase up to 100% of a local financial institution with the prior authorization of the Superintendent of Banks. The limits are 20% and 5% of net worth. There are no regulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to au- thorized financial intermediaries because they do not have access to the BR. For net exter- nal assets in cash, there is an upper limit of 50% of net worth. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 235 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Changes During 2001 January L A 1.2% customs surcharge was introduced, raising the overall level of simple average tariff —including other duties and charges—to 12.8%. January 1. The number of rates of tax credit certificates received by exporters after surren- dering their export receipts was reduced to three from four and the rates were changed to 2.25%, 2.5%, and 3.0% (previously, 2.25%, 3.6%, 4.5%, and 6.5%). Controls on capital and money market instruments December 21. Securities issued by nonresidents were required to meet the conditions established in Resolution 933. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Comorian franc is pegged to the euro at CF 491.96775 per €1. Exchange rates are offi- cially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the euro and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros (CBC) and is provided to traders for up to three months by a commercial bank that is authorized to conduct this transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Comoros is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members) are made in French francs (through December 31,2001; euros from January 1,2002) or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in Comorian francs. Comoros is a member of COMESA and RIFF. Yes. The Minister of Finance and Budget has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the CBC and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. With the exception of transactions relating to gold, the country's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (WAEMU and CEMAC members). Statistical reporting is required to monitor speculative transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 237 Controls on external trade Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold require prior authorization. Exports and imports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to CF 500,000 may be exported. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to CBC approval, which is granted if supporting documentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment issued abroad in their name without providing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents are produced. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Opening of these accounts is permitted, but authorization has not been granted. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted if applicants meet the criteria for nonresident eligibility. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 COMOROS Import licenses and other nontariff measures The importation of most goods, except for those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to individual notification for statistical purposes. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs The importation from all countries of some goods is prohibited for health or security reasons. Import duty rates are 20%, 30%, and 40% for general merchandise. The import duty rate for tobacco is 180% and that for spirits ranges between 200% and 250%. An administrative fee of 3% is levied on imports that are exempt from duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract. Proceeds must be sold immediately after repatriation to the authorized bank. No. Documentation requirements With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required by customs regulations. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Notification is required for statistical purposes. Yes. A temporary export tax of 5% is levied on vanilla. Taxes are levied on specific luxury products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other payments, except investment-related transfers, are subject to indicative limits or bona fide tests. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investments is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Yes. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the CBC on submission of supporting documentation. Personal payments These transactions are authorized on presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 239 Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test The limits for tourist and business travel apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities CBC authorization is required to effect these transactions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments There is no local market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no local market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There is no local market in these instruments. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a maximum maturity of 90 days. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 COMOROS To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Controls relate to the approval of the underlying transactions, not to payments or receipts. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Settlement of debt is permitted upon presentation of supporting documentation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending is permitted for economic activities in the Comoros. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending does not take place in practice. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There is no local market for these securities. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. There is no local market for these transactions. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 241 Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position as of December 37, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the Congo franc. Effective May 26, 2001, the authorities eliminated the multiple exchange rate structure. A floating exchange rate system was adopted on May 26, 2001. A foreign exchange inter- bank market was created concurrently with the introduction of the floating rate system, and exchange bureaus were allowed to operate again. On the basis of information received daily from exchange bureaus and banks on the amounts and rates applied in transactions with their customers, the Central Bank of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (BCC) pub- lishes the daily exchange rate, based on transactions in each of these markets and the com- bined average rate of these markets. The BCC, while observing the international reserves target in the monetary program, intervenes to smooth exchange rate fluctuations, but not against market fundamentals. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institu- tions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1%. The spread between the buy- ing and selling rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and financial insti- tutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5%. A charge of 0.2% is levied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of 23 convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the BCC. Residents must make payments to nonresi- dents in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in Congo francs or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made in SDKs and through Central African Units of Account (UCAC) accounts established under arrangements concluded by the BCC with the central banks of the countries concerned. These operations are suspended at present, however. Balances on these UCAC accounts at the end of settlement periods—each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for CEEAC countries—are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for reexports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through accounts with foreign correspondent banks after clearing through the Central African Clearing House through its account with the BCC. Effective February 21, 2001, current transactions between residents and nonresidents have been fully liberalized, but they still must be reported for statistical and monitoring purposes. Residents may use foreign exchange in transactions among themselves, except in con- junction with the following: residential rent, education, health-related expenditures, and electricity. The costs for these are fixed and may be paid only in domestic currency. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Yes. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 243 Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a member of the COMES A. There are arrangements with Burundi and Rwanda. Payments are made through the SDR accounts of the BCC and the central banks of the other two countries. These arrangements, however, are presently inoperative, as is the clearing agreement of the COMES A. Foreign exchange transactions must be conducted through the BCC or authorized foreign exchange dealers. The BCC also supervises authorized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange positions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Only nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within the country outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons may do so only on behalf of, and for the account of, authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the BCC. Resident and nonresident travelers must declare their foreign exchange holdings upon en- tering or exiting the country. Travelers exiting the country are authorized to carry an amount of foreign exchange not to exceed $10,000 or its equivalent, except if they are in international transit or on a service mission, in which case they are obliged to declare the amounts of foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Yes. An unlimited amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country, but amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Resident Accounts These accounts are permitted and may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denomi- nated in any currency for which the BCC publishes exchange rates. Authorized banks are permitted to open accounts in foreign currency for residents and nonresidents without prior approval from the BCC. Yes. n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BCC. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments may not exceed 20% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Importers must obtain an import declaration from an authorized bank that is valid for 12 months. With a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and approved by the foreign agents of the Control Office of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (OCC). Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of up to the equivalent of $2,500 a shipment. Letters of credit Rules for imports follow the generally accepted international payment modes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import-licensing requirements, other than those with respect to negative lists, are for statistical purposes only. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Yes. Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authori- zation from the government. Global import licenses are authorized if the imported goods are of the same nature and origin. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated within 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank within 10 days after the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports, including consignment, must be repatriated as soon as the goods have been sold. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must obtain an export declaration form that is valid for three months from an authorized bank. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 245 Preshipment inspection All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the OCC; coffee exports also require a quality certificate from the National Coffee Office. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export-licensing requirements are for statistical purposes only. Yes. The export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers A declaration for payments on account of invisible transactions must be submitted. Trade-related payments Payment of commissions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits or bona fide tests are applied to payments of freight, insurance, and commissions. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the authorized banks as needed by the account holders. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on treasury bill transactions. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Both outward and inward direct investments are permitted, subject to a license from a bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted, subject to prior BCC authorization, only at the time of liquidation, nationaliza- tion, or partial or total transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Personal capital transfers are unrestricted, generally authorized, and do not require licenses. However, they must be carried out through the banking system. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Bridge loans require prior consent of the BCC. Yes. No. Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position. Credit controls Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The ceiling on the foreign exchange position of each bank is authorized by the BCC. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 247 Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement May 26. The authorities allowed the Congo franc to float. As a result, the multiple ex- change rate structure was eliminated. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 21. Current transactions between residents and nonresidents were fully liberal- ized, but they still must be reported for statistical and monitoring purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market. Payments to all non- BEAC countries are subject to a commission of 0.5%, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are payments of the state, the Postal and Telecommunica- tions Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, payments made on behalf of individuals for purchases of books and newspapers not intended for sale, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Republic of Congo. No. No. There are no spot or forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their positions on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Republic of Congo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, French francs (through De- cember 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002), or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the cur- rencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CEMAC are harmonized. Yes. Payments to France and the Operations Account countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted. Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, how- ever, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations (DGCRF) in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Budget (MEFB) supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the MEFB, which has delegated approval authority to the DGCRF. All exchange transactions with foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, the Postal and Telecommunications Administration and authorized banks. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 249 International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior authorization of the MEFB is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The prior authorization of the MEFB is required to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents or nonresidents may export from the Republic of Congo to any member country of the BEAC area of issue, but exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC area are prohibited. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to France or the Operations Account countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment in- struments in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demon- strating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that the banknotes had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from a member country of the BEAC area of issue to the Republic of Congo. However, imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC are prohibited. Travelers are authorized to enter the Republic of Congo with banknotes and coins other than CFA francs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. No. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts are intended primarily for the use of international agencies and embassies. However, prior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were ap- plied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes exchanged outside the area of issue, these may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million with countries other than France and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from these countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and approved by the Foreign Trade Directorate and the DGCRF. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs An annual import program classifies imports by the following zones: (1) the countries of the CEMAC, (2) France, (3) other Operations Account countries, (4) EU countries other than France, and (5) all remaining countries. Nine product items under this program require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and without licenses. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Imports of cement are subject to quotas. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in the Republic of Congo. The common duty rates of the CEMAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods requiring special protection. Intra-CEMAC customs duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been introduced on imports of goods previously subject to quantitative restrictions. These surcharges are to be eliminated in three to six years, with the longer period applying to certain agricultural and textile products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CEMAC zone must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002) or those of other Operations Account countries must be surrendered within one month of collection. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 251 Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. All exports require an exchange commitment that must be underwritten within eight days from the export date. Yes. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject only to declaration and presentation of ap- propriate documents to the MEFB for approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underlying trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Investment-related payments The regulations in force guarantee the repatriation of profits, dividends, and proceeds from disinvestment abroad. Prior approval Payments for depreciation of direct investments require DGCRF authorization. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to France or the other Operations Ac- count countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in CFA francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 4 million a trip; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 10 million a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. Yes. Yes. The allowance for travel to countries other than France and Operations Account countries for medical treatment and educational purposes is CFAF 5 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers of pensions and payments for medical expenses, studies abroad, alimony, and family maintenance are authorized upon presentation of supporting documents. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign nationals working in CEMAC countries are allowed to transfer part of their net salary abroad upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place within three months of the pay period during which the funds were earned. Yes. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEFB, is limited to the ceilings applied for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. Proceeds of over CFAF 5 million that are received from resi- dents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. All proceeds over CFAF 5 million in respect of services, as well as income earned in those countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers between the Republic of Congo, France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries are free, provided that they are not related to activities that are prohibited under CEMAC regulations, although ex post declarations are required. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Republic of Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Republic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEFB. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Republic of Congo has previously been authorized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirement that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad. All lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained from the MEFB. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans whose total amounts outstanding do not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 100 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment REPUBLIC OF CONGO 253 Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEFB. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans in which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least two years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval of the MEFB is required. Investments of over CFAF 100 million (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Republic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo) require the prior approval of the MEFB within 30 days, unless they involve the creation of a mixed public/private-ownership enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Full or partial liquidation of direct investments must be declared to the MEFB within 30 days. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican co!6n. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax The external value of the co!6n is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among au- thorized traders, where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its intervention operations. For- eign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. The government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transac- tions with the state commercial banks and the CB at the official reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the ex- change rates used in the market during the previous business day. During 2001, the annual rate of the crawl was 6.7%. A tax, calculated as the average daily spread between buying and selling rates multiplied by the transaction amount, is applied to all transactions in the exchange market. During 2001, the tax rate averaged 10%. Proceeds from this tax must be transferred to the CB within one day. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in dollars or in local currencies. Costa Rica is a member of the CACM. Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SUGEF). International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Natural and juridical persons may buy or sell domestically produced gold (except national trade archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of foreign currency are free but are usually carried out through the CB. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Resident Accounts 255 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Customs tariffs on most goods range up to 15%. In addition, the following taxes are lev- ied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (2) selective consumption taxes at rates ranging from zero to 75%. Imports of fuel are made by the Costa Rican Petroleum Refinery and imports of grain by the National Council of Production. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must report receipts from exports within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. n.a. An export form must be filed. Licenses are required for the following goods from their respective agencies: armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the MEC; sugar from the Agro-Industrial Cane League (LAICA); beans, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and thoroughbred cattle from the National Council of Production; airplanes from the Civil Aviation Board and the MEC; Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the Na- tional Museum; tobacco from the Tobacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, cats, dogs, certain livestock, and wild animals and plants of the forest from the Ministry of Agri- culture and Livestock; bananas from the National Banana Corporation; and coffee from the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 COSTA RICA Export taxes Coffee Institute. In addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, the bank's approval is required before the CB will grant an export license. Taxes are levied on coffee and bananas and, in some cases, are graduated in line with international prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside Central America. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments A 15% withholding tax is levied on all profits, dividends, and remittances of interest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or their financial entities recognized by the CB as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, and for interest payments on government borrowing abroad. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Receipts of proceeds must be reported within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The MOF has been authorized by the national assembly to issue bonds in international markets. These bonds are to be issued annually—beginning in 2000 and continuing for five years—in amounts equivalent to $250 million, except for the year 2003, when the amount will be increased to the equivalent of $450 million. If the annual amount is not issued or sold by the end of a year, the remaining amount will be added to the amount for the following year. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The National Budget Authority (composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, and the President of the CB) is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Private commercial banks, finance companies, and cooperatives must inform the CB when contracting credits abroad. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 257 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax Authorized banks charge a proportional commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury, and a fixed commission, which they may set freely. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract foreign exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Cote d'lvoire is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made mainly in euros (from January 1, 2002; French francs through December 31, 2001), but they may also be made in foreign curren- cies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are allowed freely for current ac- count transactions. Capital transactions are subject to exchange authorization (which must be filed with the Ministry of Economy and Finance—MEF), except in the following cases: (1) transfers of the amounts required for contractual settlements of debts or for repayments of short-term loans granted for financing commercial and industrial operations; (2) transfers of proceeds from the liquidation of investments or the sale of foreign securities by nonresi- dents; and (3) payments for purchases of options. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MEF and the BCEAO. Since the regulations governing external financial relations of WAEMU member countries came into force (on February 1, 1999), the only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of these institutions relate to (1) outward investments by nonresidents; (2) the soliciting of funds in Cote d'lvoire for placement in foreign countries; and (3) domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents. Regulations governing the external financial relations of WAEMU member countries delegate the approval process for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The maximum amount of transfers that may be effected without supporting documents is CFAF 300,000. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 259 International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MEF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchases of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. The shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized banks and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits at local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 mil- lion a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Imports of domestic currency by resident travelers are permitted freely. The shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MEF and with the approval of the BCEAO. Holding these accounts is subject to authorization by the MEF with the prior approval of the BCEAO. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to authorization by the MEF with the prior approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 COTE D'lVOIRE Convertible into foreign currency banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MEF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in CFA francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the official foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the goods have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement, which must be channeled through an authorized bank, applies to all imports from outside the CFA franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 million. Inspection for quality and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 million; imports valued between under CFAF 1.5 million may be subject to random inspection. LCs are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Account countries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requiring li- censes issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the Ministry of Commerce. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% commu- nity solidarity fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. Imports from non-ECOWAS countries are subject to an additional community tax of 0.5%. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to banks within 30 days of the payment due date. The author- ized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes COTE D'lVOIRE 261 Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of For- eign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin, as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MEF, with the exception of articles with only a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through an auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the regulatory body of these commodities. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are also permitted, subject to documentary require- ments. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval The transfer abroad of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be effected freely, but must be made through an authorized bank and reported to the MEF for statistical pur- poses. Payments of depreciation of direct investments are not expressly provided for in the legislation and, as such, require prior MEF approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may carry foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person. Amounts exceeding this limit must be in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other instruments. There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, family maintenance, or alimony. These payments may be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appro- priate documentation. Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pen- sions and work-related activities; and service contracts are authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents COTE D'lVOIRE Capital Transactions Capital inflows to WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declaration, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. All investments abroad by residents require prior MEF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must be effected by borrowing from abroad. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. In accordance with the new direction of economic policy aimed at attracting foreign investment, foreign exchange laws currently in force in WAEMU member countries do not control capital inflows. Under the new foreign exchange laws, the term "foreigner" refers to countries that are not members of the CFA franc zone. However, with respect to the local issue and offer for sale of foreign securities, the term "foreigner" means all countries outside the territory of the member country concerned. With the exception of the issue and sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. By their nature, however, these opera- tions are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the sale of foreign securities by residents and to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of investments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MEF. There are no controls, provided that a prior declaration is made in the case of direct investment. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire by nonresidents require prior authorization by the RCPSFM. Securities issued or offered for sale by a nonresident with prior authorization may be pur- chased freely by a resident. The same applies to payments for these purchases by residents, subsequent to the presentation of supporting documentation. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MEF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior authorization of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Ivoirien corporations, foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to the MEF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior dec- laration to the MEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 263 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the MEF. The transfer of the proceeds from these operations is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MEF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Residents may purchase or sell options abroad freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior MEF approval. Such approval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or for those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of these credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from payments for services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to the pres- entation of the relevant proof of the execution of the commercial transaction or the provi- sion of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MEF. These facilities may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorized intermediary, but they must be reported to the Directorate of the Treasury. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MEF. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Prior MEF approval is required. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 COTE D'lVOIRE Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MEF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is sub- ject to the prior authorization of the MEF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investment abroad by a resident is subject to prior approval by the MEF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital transactions between residents and nonresidents must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized bank, unless prior authorization is ob- tained from the MEF. These transactions require prior MEF authorization. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are permitted freely, but, for statistical purposes, they must be reported to the MEF when they are contracted and repaid. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and legacies, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other operations require prior authorization of the MEF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MEF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Amounts in excess may be transferred with MEF authorization. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions are free, but are subject to prior authorization by the MEF and the BCEAO in the case of loans, financial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 265 Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or purchases of foreign currency- denominated securities issued in C6te d'lvoire require prior authorization by the MEF with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the MEF if their issuance or sale in WAEMU member countries has not been authorized by the RCPSFM. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MEF with the approval of the BCEAO. The regulations governing foreign investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian kuna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the foreign exchange market. The Croatian National Bank (CNB) may set intervention exchange rates, which it applies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market for leveling undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CNB has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a limited forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions The regulations governing capital transactions in foreign currencies apply. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Yes. Yes. This is allowed only in specific cases. Operative There is an arrangement with Italy that applies only between certain districts. Administration of control The CNB formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commer- cial courts. Imports and exports are subject to exchange controls to prevent fraudulent and fictitious imports and to facilitate enforcement of existing restrictions on certain capital flows. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade CROATIA 267 In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on certain financial transactions with Angola, Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the Taliban. Yes. Exports of unprocessed gold and gold coins by producers of gold or by authorized com- mercial banks are subject to the approval of the CNB. Imports of gold are also subject to CNB approval. Imports and exports of monetary and nonmonetary gold (including gold in unwrought, semimanufactured, or powder form or plated with platinum; gold bars, rods, wires, and sections; gold plates; and gold sheets and strips exceeding 0.15 mm in thickness, excluding any backing) are subject to approval of the Ministry of Economy (MOE). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes As a measure against money laundering, kuna or foreign exchange cash transactions ex- ceeding HRK 40,000 or its equivalent must be reported to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted The exportation of domestic and foreign currency in cash or checks must be declared to customs. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is restricted to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be exported with special permission from the CNB. Resident natural persons may take abroad up to the equivalent of €511 (prior to January 1, 2002, DM 1,000). An additional amount up to the equivalent of €1,022 (prior to January 1, 2002, DM 2,000) may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. The CNB may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be imported with special permission from the CNB. Resident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the CNB has the authority to allow resident juridical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and to meet the requirements of regular foreign trade activities abroad. Effective March 13, 2002, the law includes specific provisions for resident juridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to hedge against risks arising from regular foreign trade activities abroad, and to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the CNB. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.r. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents may convert domestic currency into foreign currency without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 CROATIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad by converting domestic currency. As a measure against money laundering, nonresi- dent juridical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 a month without special permission from the CNB. Nonresident juridical persons may withdraw up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000 a month from their deposit accounts. Larger amounts may be withdrawn with CNB permission. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. A decision has been published regarding the documentation required for opening foreign exchange and domestic currency accounts by nonresidents. These accounts may be opened with the proceeds from sales of goods and services; foreign exchange transferred from abroad and converted into domestic currency; profits earned on invested capital; proceeds from sales of stock or shares; and proceeds from the liquidation of investments. Nonresident persons may withdraw in cash up to HRK 15,000 a month from their deposit accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange may be purchased with funds held in these accounts without restriction. Blocked accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (natural persons) of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, blocked since 1992, have been replaced by claims on the Croatian government. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Advance payments and down payments for imports are permitted under certain circumstances. Imports are subject to exchange controls. An invoice or agreement is required for transfers. There are no import quotas, although the trade law allows for such quotas in principle, un- der conditions envisaged by WTO rules. All imports are free from licensing requirements except for a list of products whose importation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs, and narcotics), and a small number of other products (notably iron tubes and bars and fertilizers—except for those from WTO members). Imports are not limited on the basis of quantity or value, except as stated in relevant international conventions. Licenses are issued on a case-by-case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of industrial products are subject to customs tariffs of up to 17.6%. For a number of agricultural and food products, compound duties (ad valorem plus specific customs duty) are applied. The maximum ad valorem duty is 64% and, where compound duty is applied, the maximum ad valorem component is 15%. The exemption for duty-free imports by trav- elers is HRK 300. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes (VAT 22%) are applied. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the equivalent of HRK 5,000 are subject to a simplified customs procedure with a unified tariff rate of 10%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are ap- plied. Returning citizens who have resided abroad for at least five years without interrup- tion may import household effects that were in use for at least 12 months, as well as goods for private business purposes—subject to customs approval —without paying customs tar- iffs or taxes. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment pur- poses are exempt from import duties. Imports under special customs procedures, such as temporary imports and goods to be processed under customs surveillance, are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 269 Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected and repatriated in full within 150 days of the date of exportation. This period may be extended for 60 days with permission from the CNB. If payment terms in excess of 150 days have been agreed to with foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be registered with the CNB. Export proceeds from the countries of the CIS must be repatriated within 180 days, with the possibility of a further 60-day extension, subject to the approval of the CNB. No. Yes. Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects). No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the regulations governing exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, except in central bank short-term securities in the primary market. In general, outward investment in capital and money market securities is not allowed for either natural or juridical persons, except for banks, investment funds, and pension funds. There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pension funds. There are controls in place for all residents, except banks, investment funds, and pension funds. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing financial credits apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Only purchases in the primary market are restricted. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing financial credits apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 CROATIA Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Purchases for the purpose of hedging against risks arising from regular foreign trade activities are permitted. Controls on credit operations Foreign credit operations must be registered with the CNB. Commercial credits For statistical purposes only, such transactions have to be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident juridical persons may extend financial credits only to nonresident juridical persons in which they have the majority of voting rights. To residents from nonresidents Resident juridical persons may obtain financial credits from abroad only for undertaking activities for which they are registered. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Resident juridical persons may issue guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities only for undertaking activities for which they are registered. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Foreign direct investment must be registered with the CNB for statistical purposes. Outward direct investment Natural persons may not make foreign direct investments abroad. Foreign direct investment abroad by juridical persons may be carried out freely under certain circumstances, but must be registered with the MOE within 30 days of signing the contract. Inward direct investment Investments must be registered with the commercial courts. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, including tax payments. A natural person may not transfer capital abroad for the purpose of buying real estate. Juridical persons may buy real estate abroad for the purpose of foreign direct investment. Subject to the permission of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the prior opinion of the Minister of Justice, foreign natural and juridical persons may, unless otherwise determined by law or under the condition of reciprocity, acquire the ownership of real estate in Croatia. For statistical purposes only, these transactions must be registered with the CNB. By residents to nonresidents Natural persons may not grant credits to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Resident natural persons are required to use foreign financial credits through the authorized domestic banks. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Cash gifts and endowments greater than the equivalent of €1,533 (prior to January 1, 2002, DM 3,000) must be approved by the CNB. Transfer abroad by emigrants The approval of the CNB is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements CROATIA 271 Domestic commercial banks may not provide foreign exchange credits to resident natural persons. Effective April 10, 2001, domestic commercial banks are allowed to provide for- eign exchange loans to resident juridical persons for all payments abroad. Effective June 8, 2001, the reserve ratio for deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign exchange was reduced to 22% from 23.5%. Effective November 14, 2001, it was further reduced to 19%. The calculation period for the new unified rate follows the calendar month, while the maintenance period also lasts a month, but begins from the eighth of the calendar month to the seventh of the following month. Effective January 8, 2001, 40% (previously 50%) of the required reserves has to be deposited in a special account with the CNB. Effective March 7, 2001, the deposited kuna component of required reserves is remunerated at 3.7% (previously 4.5%), while the remuneration of the foreign exchange component is related to the average interest rate earned on the CNB's placements abroad. Effective May 23, 2001, the deposited kuna component of required reserves was reduced to 3.5%; it was further reduced, effective September 7, 2001, to 2%. Effective November 14, 2001, 25% of the calculated foreign exchange reserve requirement is included in the calcu- lated kuna reserve requirement and is allocated in kuna. Effective October 10, 2001, the base for deposits denominated in foreign exchange has been extended. Liquid asset requirements Short-term foreign exchange liabilities must be covered by 53% short-term foreign exchange assets with a maturity of less than one year. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on open position in foreign exchange is 20% of a bank's regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad A law on obligatory and voluntary pension funds is in effect. Investment funds may not invest more than 5% of the value of the fund in the securities of a single issuer. However, this limit may be raised to 10%, provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addition, investment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer, but only if the total face value of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face value of all the bonds of the same issuer and if they are in circulation. For purposes of determining this limit, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one-half of their face value. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Resident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2001 April JO. The amendments to the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions came into force, liberalizing foreign exchange opera- tions in the country, and permitted (1) domestic juridical persons to purchase foreign exchange for the purpose of depositing it in their foreign exchange accounts without declaration of the purpose of the payment, and (2) foreign exchange conversions without declaration of the purpose of the payment abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 8. The minimum ratio of the calculated reserve requirement that must be deposited in a special account with the CNB was reduced to 40% from 50%. March 7. The amount of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was lowered to 3.7% from 4.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 CROATIA April JO. The amendments to the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions came into effect, permitting domestic commercial banks to provide foreign exchange loans to resident juridical persons for all payments abroad and to make deposits into foreign exchange accounts. May 23. The deposited kuna component of required reserves was reduced to 3.5% from 3.7%. June 8. The reserve ratio for deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign exchange was reduced to 22% from 23.5%. September 7. The amount of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was lowered to 2% from 3.5%. October 10. The base for deposits denominated in foreign exchange was extended. November 14. The reserve ratio for deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign exchange was reduced to 19% from 22%, and the calculated foreign exchange reserve requirement was included in the calculated kuna reserve requirement. Changes During 2002 Resident accounts March 13. Resident juridical persons were permitted to maintain accounts with banks abroad for purposes of construction of capital projects abroad and of hedging against risks arising from ordinary trade activites abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The Cyprus pound is pegged to the euro at a central rate of €1.7086 per £C 1, with margins around the euro central rate of 15%, increased from 2.25% effective January 1, 2001. Sub- ject to certain limitations, including a limit on spreads between buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) monitors the foreign exchange rates and may intervene to safeguard the smooth functioning of the market and the stability of the cur- rency. The CBC is also responsible for organizing the daily fixing session with the com- mercial banks, at which the official foreign exchange rates ("fixing exchange rates") for the pound are determined. No. No. Effective January 1, 2001, the CBC withdrew from the forward exchange market. Until that date, authorized dealers were allowed to purchase forward cover from the CBC at prevail- ing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated with their customers. Forward foreign exchange contracts may be utilized by anyone who has entered into a contractual agreement. The forward cover may be extended to any period, provided it does not exceed the duration of the underlying obligation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no restrictions on contracts between residents denominated in foreign currency. Actual payments between residents in foreign currency are permitted only when the residents involved maintain foreign currency accounts. No. Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation with authorized dealers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for most bona fide transactions. Although restrictions imposed against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were lifted, bank balances belonging to the National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen. Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, nongovernmental forces in Sierra Leone, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears No. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 CYPRUS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic collection purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bullion at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bullion requires the permission of the CBC. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 100. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. Effective May 18, 2001, in cases where declarations are not made, nonresidents may export up to the equiva- lent of $1,000 (previously £C 1,000) in Cypriot or foreign banknotes. In addition, nonresi- dents may export the fu ll amount of refunded VAT in Cypriot banknotes. Authorized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot banknotes to foreign banks in exchange for foreign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from author- ized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival, as well as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds. In addition, departing nonresidents may convert, through authorized dealers, Cypriot banknotes up to £C 500 into foreign banknotes, which they can export. Nonresidents entering Cyprus are advised to declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes in order to facilitate their reexport, deposit with authorized dealers, or use in purchasing immovable property or goods for export. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Residents dealing with transit or triangular trade, manufacturers-exporters, hoteliers, law- yers, accountants, and stockbrokers may hold foreign currency accounts. Other residents who transact in foreign currency may hold such accounts only with prior CBC approval. Approval of the CBC is required for residents other than those engaged in transit or triangu- lar trade, manufacturers-exporters, hoteliers, lawyers, accountants, stockbrokers, Cypriot repatriates, and individuals temporarily working abroad. Effective March 1, 2002, each resident natural person 18 years or older may deposit up to £C 20,000 a year in accounts with foreign banks and/or in portfolio investments abroad. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency accounts or external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad, all of their foreign currency holdings and earn- ings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident individuals temporarily working abroad may maintain their foreign currency earnings in foreign currency accounts, external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad. Approval required Approval of the CBC is required for cases other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are subject to the regulations governing foreign currency accounts held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 275 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources and authorized payments from residents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the rules governing foreign currency accounts apply. Blocked accounts Effective January 1,2001, blocked accounts were abolished. Until that date, they were maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that could not be immediately transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds could either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds was freely transferable to the nonresident beneficiary or could be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to one-third of the principal or £C 50,000, whichever is higher, could be released for transfer abroad in each calendar year. Thus, blocked accounts were in practice transferable abroad within two years after the date of blocking. Also, blocked funds could be released for the following payments in Cyprus: (1) to meet the holder's personal expenses in Cyprus (up to £C 10,000 a year without reference to the CBC); and (2) to purchase any securities quoted on the Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses The CBC examines remittances to suppliers exceeding £C 50,000 for bona fide purposes. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; for larger amounts, approval by the CBC is required. Import licenses are required for a small number of goods. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports are free of licensing requirements. A license is required for a small number of goods prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism (MCIT). Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Imports from Iraq are restricted in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment unless an exception is granted by the CBC. In general, export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of exportation. However, manufacturers importing their own raw materials are allowed to keep up to 50% of export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 CYPRUS Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas In accordance with international agreements, goods that may be used for chemical or biological weapons, as well as nuclear-related products (including dual-use products), are subject to licensing for reasons of preserving international peace and security. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Authorized dealers have been delegated the authority to carry out payments for most invisi- ble transactions without reference to the CBC. Indicative limits apply for certain transac- tions. Payments above these limits require CBC approval, which is subject to the presenta- tion of the appropriate documentation. Authorized dealers are allowed to effect payments for freight of up to £C 500,000 without reference to the CBC. Amounts above this limit require CBC approval, which is granted on presentation of the appropriate documentation. Authorized dealers may also effect pay- ments for insurance without reference to the CBC. Prior approval Commissions in excess of 10% of the value of exported goods require CBC approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits for the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments Profits and dividends and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad without limitation after payment of due taxes. Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Yes. Effective May 21,2001, authorized dealers may approve, without reference to the CBC, applications by resident travel agents to pay foreign travel agents, hotels, and similar enti- ties up to £C 30,000 (previously £C 10,000) for each organized trip. Effective May 21, 2001, the indicative limit for tourist travel is £C 3,000 (previously £C 1,000) a person a trip. However, if the length of stay abroad does not exceed five days, the limit is £C 1,000. The CBC approves applications for higher amounts to cover bona fide expenses without limitation. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions and for other personal payments exceeding the quantitative or indicative limits. Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Banks may issue up to £C 5,000 for medical expenses abroad. Unlimited additional amounts are provided with the approval of the CBC. For studies abroad, there are no limits on payments of tuition fees, while indicative limits apply for living expenses. These indica- tive limits are based on an annual review of the cost of living in each country. Amounts above these limits are approved by the CBC for bona fide living expenses. Effective January 2,2002, wages earned by legally employed nonresidents in Cyprus may be transferred abroad without restriction through authorized dealers (previously, these transfers were generally limited to 80% of the monthly remuneration or £C 400, whichever was larger). In order to establish the bona fide nature of the transaction, foreign workers must present authorized dealers with their employment permit, contract of employment, and tax clearance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Authorized dealers may issue credit cards valid abroad to any resident. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Other payments CYPRUS 277 Effective January 1, 2002, the limit on cash withdrawals is £C 1,000 a trip (previously £C 300). Authorized dealers may approve payments for royalties and license fees in accordance with relevant agreements without limits. They may also carry out payments for subscrip- tion/membership fees, consulting/legal fees, and other services, up to £C 100,000. For higher amounts, CBC approval is required, based on an examination of the bona fide nature of the payment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Generally, receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. However, a large number of residents have been allowed to maintain part of these proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts and use these balances for international payments. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The acquisition of shares of banks listed on the CSE is subject to a ceiling of 50% of each bank's issued capital. The acquisition of shares of other public companies, except banks, by natural or juridical persons from EU member states is free, while the participation in the share capital of such companies by other persons is subject to a 49% limit. Public companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transactions with nonresidents without reference to the CBC, subject to the limit described above. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not gener- ally permitted to purchase them. Authorized dealers are allowed to approve applications by nonresidents for transfer abroad of proceeds from sales of securities quoted on the CSE up to £C 500,000 without reference to the CBC. Applications for greater amounts must be referred to the CBC. Effective March 1, 2002, resident natural persons 18 years or older may transfer abroad up to £C 20,000 a year to purchase securities listed on stock exchanges listed in EU countries or units of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities that fulfill EU requirements. Alternatively, part or all of this amount may be deposited in accounts with foreign banks or used for insurance premium payments. Prior to that date, outward portfolio investment was permitted for the following residents: institutional investors (i.e., insurance and investment companies registered on the CSE); Cypriot repatriates and residents tempo- rarily working abroad; and resident employees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered by their employers. Portfolio investment by other residents was subject to CBC approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the ceilings described above for purchases by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 CYPRUS Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase bonds admitted to the CSE, including bonds issued by public companies and government bonds denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase treasury bills denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is required for residents to purchase such instruments. Purchase abroad by residents Except for banks and institutional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily working abroad may purchase money market instruments abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Acquisition of securities issued by public investment companies in Cyprus is free for natu- ral and juridical persons from EU states and is subject to a ceiling of 49% for other persons. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of these instruments by residents are subject to the regulations that govern purchases of capital market securities. Except for institutional investors, only Cypriot repatriates and residents temporarily wor- king abroad may purchase these instruments abroad by using their balances in foreign currency or external accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Credits with a maturity of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely granted. Other credits require approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with a maturity of up to 200 days for imports of goods to Cyprus may be negotiated freely. Other credits are subject to approval of the CBC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents other than authorized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits without the approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Short-term borrowing is subject to approval by the CBC. Effective January 1, 2001, medium- and long-term credits were liberalized. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees without reference to the CBC in certain cases, including tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the refund of advance payments, and guaran- tees in respect of any other transactions where an immediate payment to the nonresident beneficiary could be made under the existing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior approval of the CBC is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 279 Residents of Cyprus are allowed to undertake direct investment abroad freely with respect to the sector of the investment and the amount of foreign exchange involved. The transfer of capital abroad may be effected as soon as the CBC is satisfied that the direct investment is genuine. Where the foreign exchange cost is substantial, the CBC reserves the right to take measures in order to mitigate the impact on the balance of payments. Inward direct investment from EU states is free, except in certain sectors that are governed by specific restrictive legislation, i.e., tertiary education and public utilities (no foreign participation is allowed); radio and television stations (participation by EU investors is subject to a limit of 25% a person, provided total EU participation in a company does not exceed 49%, while a non-EU investor may own up to 5% of the share capital, subject to approval of the Council of Ministers); and publication of newspapers and magazines (sub- ject to authorization by the Minister of the Interior). Inward direct investments from non- EU countries are subject to the above restrictions, as well as to others related to maximum percentage participation and minimum equity capital. Cypriot businesses may be majority- owned by non-EU residents, provided that their equity capital exceeds the required mini- mum of that particular sector. For example, companies engaged in wholesale retail trade may be 100% owned by non-EU residents, provided their equity capital is not less than £C 300,000. Permission of the CBC for the repatriation of the proceeds of sale or liquidation of ap- proved investments (including capital gains) is readily granted at any time after payment of taxes. Effective January 2, 2002, each resident family may transfer abroad up to £C 200,000 to acquire a secondary residence abroad (previously, effective July 2, 2001, the limit was £C 100,000). In accordance with the Immovable Property Acquisition (Aliens) Law, aliens may acquire immovable property in Cyprus by inheritance only —and only with the approval of the Dis- trict Officer —and they are required to pay with foreign exchange. When the real estate concerned exceeds two donums (one donum =1,338 m2), approval is granted only for the following purposes: (1) a primary or secondary residence not exceeding three donums; (2) professional or commercial premises; or (3) premises for industry sectors deemed bene- ficial to the Cypriot economy. Nonresidents of Cypriot origin do not need to obtain the approval of the District Officer. Proceeds are transferable abroad after payment of taxes. If the real estate was not acquired with foreign exchange, the proceeds of the sale are transferable at the rate of £C 1 million or one-third of the total amount, whichever is larger, a calendar year. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Prior approval of the CBC is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Effective January 1, 2002, resident parents may grant gifts or endowments of up to £C 50,000 to each of their nonresident children. Also effective that date, prior approval of the CBC is required for gifts or endowments exceeding £C 1,000 (previously £C 500) every six months, and for the transfer of funds inherited from residents by nonresidents. All funds inherited by nonresidents are transfer- able abroad after payment of taxes. In cases where the immigrant debtor does not maintain sufficient balances in foreign currency or external accounts to repay a debt abroad, approval of the CBC is granted for repayment through local funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 CYPRUS Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants At the time of departure, emigrants may transfer abroad up to £C 100,000 of their local funds. After their settlement abroad, they may transfer any remaining local funds. In addi- tion, emigrants who are Cypriot repatriates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were previously residents in other countries and decide to emigrate again from Cyprus) may transfer abroad at the time of emigration all of their funds that they previously transferred into Cyprus and converted into local funds. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval from the CBC is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers are allowed to maintain working balances with foreign banks within limits prescribed by the CBC, as well as deposits abroad held as cover for their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers are allowed to grant medium- and long-term loans in foreign currencies to nonresidents of up to 20% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. They are also allowed to grant loans and credits to international businesses registered in Cyprus of up to 10% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers are allowed to lend any amount in local currency to nonresidents to finance their activities in Cyprus. Such transactions do not require reference to the CBC. Authorized dealers may grant certain short-term credit facilities in foreign currency (e.g., discounting bills of exchange) to residents without reference to the CBC. For other short-term lending to residents in foreign currency, prior approval of the CBC was re- quired until January 1, 2001. On that date, commercial banks in Cyprus were authorized to grant medium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to residents without reference to the CBC. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies, held either by nonresi- dents or by residents, are different from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements A minimum reserve requirement of 8% applies only to deposits in Cyprus pounds. Liquid asset requirements Liquid assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 60% of deposit liabilities in foreign currencies must be maintained. For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed liquidity ratio. However, the liquidity positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for prudential purposes. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresidents' deposit accounts in foreign exchange or in domestic currency are not treated differently from deposit accounts of residents. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits There are prescribed assets that may be held with respect to accounts in foreign currencies. Authorized dealers may purchase securities issued abroad, such as securities issued by sol- vent foreign governments and traded in recognized stock exchanges abroad, within certain limits prescribed by the CBC. Yes. Nonresidents may acquire up to 50% of the share capital of resident banks listed on the CSE. The acquisition of 10% or more of a bank's share capital by any resident or nonresi- dent person, either alone or with any associates, is subject to prior approval of the CBC. Effective May 18,2001, the net open/uncovered overnight (intraday) position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies are 3% (5%) and 6% (8%), respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base (previously, 10% for each foreign currency and 15% overall). Higher amounts require prior CBC permission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 281 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurance companies may invest abroad up to 25% of their trust fund, in securities quoted in a number of foreign stock exchanges. Effective July 1,2001, public investment compa- nies may also invest abroad in securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges up to 50% of their capital and reserves (net worth) or £C 20 million, whichever is less (previously, 25% of their portfolio or £C 10 million, whichever was less). The CBC approves applications by other institutional investors on a case-by-case basis. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Cyprus Stock Exchange and Securities Laws and the regulations issued under these laws apply to transactions by nonresidents and residents in a nondiscriminating manner. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement January 1. The width of the band around the euro central rate at which the Cyprus pound is pegged was increased to 15% from 2.25%. January L The CBC withdrew from the forward exchange market. Arrangements for payments and receipts May 18. Nonresidents who did not declare imported banknotes upon entry into Cyprus were allowed to export up to the equivalent of $1,000 (previously £C 1,000) in Cypriot or foreign banknotes. Nonresident accounts January 1. Blocked accounts were abolished. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers May 21. The amount that resident travel agents are allowed to pay foreign travel agents, hotels, and similar entities was raised to £C 30,000 for each organized trip from £C 10,000. May 21. The indicative limit for tourist travel abroad was raised to £C 3,000 a person a trip from £C 1,000. However, if the length of stay abroad does not exceed five days, the limit is £C 1,000. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations January L Medium- and long-term credits to residents from nonresidents were liberalized. Controls on real estate transactions July 2. Resident families were allowed to transfer abroad up to £C 100,000 to acquire a secondary residence abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Commercial banks in Cyprus were authorized to grant medium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to residents without reference to the CBC. Provisions specific to institutional investors May 18. The net open/uncovered overnight (intraday) position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies were set at 3% (5%) and 6% (8%), respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base (previously, 10% for each foreign currency and 15% overall). For higher amounts, prior CBC approval is required. July 1. Public investment companies were allowed to invest abroad in securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges up to 50% of their capital and reserves (net worth) or £C 20 mil- lion, whichever is less (previously, 25% of their portfolio or £C 10 million, whichever was less). Resident accounts March L Resident natural persons 18 years or older were allowed to deposit up to £C 20,000 a year in accounts with foreign banks and/or in portfolio investments abroad. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 CYPRUS Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The limit on credit card cash withdrawals abroad was increased to £C 1,000 a trip from £C 300. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 2. Wages earned by legally employed nonresidents in Cyprus were allowed to be transferred abroad without restriction (other than documentary requirements) through au- thorized dealers (previously, these transfers were generally limited to 80% of the monthly remuneration or £C 400, whichever was larger). March L Resident natural persons 18 years or older were allowed to transfer abroad up to £C 20,000 a year to purchase securities listed on stock exchanges listed in EU countries or units of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities that fu l f i ll EU re- quirements. Alternatively, part or all of this amount may be deposited in accounts with foreign banks or used for insurance premium payments. Prior to that date, outward portfolio investment was permitted for the following residents: institutional investors (i.e., insurance and investment companies registered on the CSE); Cypriot repatriates and residents tempo- rarily working abroad; and resident employees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered by their employers. Portfolio investment by other residents was subject to CBC approval. Controls on real estate transactions January 2. The maximum amount that each resident family was allowed to transfer to acquire a secondary residence abroad was increased to £C 200,000 from £C 100,000. Controls on personal capital transactions January L Resident parents were allowed to grant gifts or endowments of up to £C 50,000 to each of their nonresident children. January L The limit on payments every six months on which prior approval is required for gifts or endowments inherited from residents by nonresidents was increased to £C 1,000 from £C 500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1,1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external value of the koruna is determined by supply and demand in the foreign ex- change market. The Czech National Bank (CNB) may intervene in the foreign exchange market in order to smooth large intraday volatility swings of the euro/koruna rate. The CNB publishes daily rates of some selected currencies against the koruna for customs and accounting purposes. Commercial banks set their own exchange rate with no limitation. Effective June 30,2001, the exchange rate arrangement of the Czech Republic was reclassi- fied to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Czech Republic is a member of the CEFTA. The MOF and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations, in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the MOF exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, bud- getary organizations, state funds, and all types of credits being extended to or accepted by the Czech Republic. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Af- ghanistan and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Most restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have been lifted. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Through December 31,2001, only authorized agents (generally banks) were allowed to trade in gold bullion, with some exceptions. Effective January 1, 2002, this restriction was lifted. There are reporting requirements on exports and imports exceeding CZK 350,000. Domestic currency Yes. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 CZECH REPUBLIC On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Approval was required (with some exceptions) until January 1, 2001, when operations on these accounts were liberalized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these ac- counts may be used freely to make payments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts may be made freely. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Af- ghanistan and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Most restrictions against the latter have been lifted. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. No. Yes. Automatic import licenses are required for some agricultural and food products, tobacco and tobacco products, raw materials, fuels and mineral oils, chemical products and products of similar industries, used textile products, poisons, auxiliary chemical substances and their precursors, pharmaceutical products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic import licenses are required for sugar from the Slovak Republic and black coal from Ukraine and Poland. Prior to July 27,2001, this list also included agricultural and food products and raw materials from the Slovak Republic. All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 29.4% for industrial goods and up to 125% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Under a customs union agreement, imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties, excluding sugar and other sweeteners. Imports from developing coun- tries are granted preferences. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 285 State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Automatic export licenses are required for some raw materials, raw leathers, wood and wooden products, precious and common metals, iron, steel and its derivatives (when exported to the EU and the United States), poisons, auxiliary chemical substances and precursors, pharmaceutical products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic export licenses are required for some live animals and other animal and plant products (for the year 2001), and textile goods exported to Canada and the United States. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Remittances of investment-related payments are permitted, once tax obligations have been met. Otherwise, there are no controls on these transfers. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective January 1,2002, the repatriation requirement for proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers was eliminated. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature in the air transport sector is regulated. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization was required for nonresidents to issue debt securities. On January 1, 2001, this was lifted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior authorization was required for residents to issue debt securities abroad. On January 1, 2001, this requirement was lifted. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization was required for nonresidents to issue money market securities. On January 1, 2001, this requirement was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 CZECH REPUBLIC Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior authorization was required for residents to issue debt securities abroad. On January 1, 2001, this requirement was lifted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. There are controls on investment by nonresidents in the air transport sector. In order to register an aircraft, to obtain a license to operate an air transportation enterprise as a Czech company, or to obtain a Czech air operating certificate, the air carrier must be a juridical person domiciled in the Czech Republic, Czech residents must hold at least 51% of the capital and voting rights, and Czech residents must have an effective influence on the man- agement and fu ll control of the activities of the enterprise. To carry out air taxi transport services, it is only necessary to be a resident of the Czech Republic. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic may acquire real estate only in the following cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the diplomatic representation of a foreign coun- try under the terms of reciprocity; (3) through unapportioned coownership of a married couple of which only one is a nonresident, or where a nonresident acquires property from a husband, wife, parents, or grandparents; (4) through the exchange of domestic real estate owned by the nonresident for other domestic real estate, the normal price of which does not exceed the normal price of the former real estate; (5) if the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned coownership of real estate; (6) if it is a construction built by a nonresident on his own land; and (7) under the terms explicitly stipulated by several acts on restitution and privatization. Prior to January 1, 2002, branches of nonresident corporations could not purchase real estate. Effective that date, this restriction was eliminated, except as regards purchases of real estate in the agricultural and forestry sectors. No. Yes. Open foreign exchange limits are applied on both on- and off-balance sheet exposures; they are 20% of the capital for all currencies and 15% for open koruna positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Credit unions, insurance companies, and pension funds may place their assets abroad, subject to specific prudential regulations. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 287 Changes During 2001 June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of the Czech Republic was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. January 1. Operations carried out by residents on deposit accounts held with foreign credit institutions were liberalized. July 27. The list of items from the Slovak Republic for which nonautomatic import licenses are required was limited to sugar (previously, these licenses were required for agricultural and food products and raw materials). Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. Prior authorization was no longer required for residents and nonresidents to issue debt or money market securities locally or abroad. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The restriction allowing only authorized agents to trade in gold bullion, with some exceptions, was lifted. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The repatriation requirement for proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers was eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions January 1. Nonresident corporations were allowed to purchase real estate locally except for real estate in the agricultural and forestry sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Denmark participates in the ERMII and maintains the spot exchange rate between the Danish krone and the euro within margins of 2.25% above or below the central rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On April 9,2002, the Danish authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze accounts belonging to the Taliban and members of terrorist groups. Persons or organizations whose accounts are frozen will not be able to engage in any financial transactions through these accounts. No accounts were immediately frozen, however. These measures have been taken in accordance with the relevant UN and EU resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Denmark maintains exchange restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 289 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea require a license. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongo- lia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Licenses are required for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of waste and scrap of certain metals. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 DENMARK Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are prohibited, except in the case of acquisitions by (1) persons who were for- merly residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU nationals working in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) non-EU nationals who either are in possession of a valid residence permit or are entitled to stay in Denmark without such a permit for residential or active business purposes. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The Consolidated Act contains prudential regulations covering capital adequacy, liquidity, and large exposures. These regulations follow the relevant EU directives. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents A 40% limitation on holdings of foreign equity securities by private insurance companies and pension funds is in effect. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies are regulated by the "balance principle," which determines that con- sistency must be ensured between assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 9. The Danish authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze accounts belonging to the Taliban and members of terrorist groups. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The Djibouti franc is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1. The official buying and selling rates for currencies other than the dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar in international markets. There is cover- age of the fu ll issue of Djibouti francs in foreign exchange. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Resident Accounts 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 DJIBOUTI Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted up to a certain percentage of the value of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax on imports at three rates (8%, 20%, and 33%). Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, qat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax of various rates. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 293 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. There are controls on all credit transactions by residents to nonresidents, including transac- tions as regards guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities within the limits estab- lished by the banking regulations to comply with the prudential standard on customer risk. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 DJIBOUTI Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a matching requirement with respect to both the amount of the transaction and the intervention currency, and also with respect to maturity and interest rate. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, a tEC$2 .70pe rUS$ l. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. Dominica is a member of the CARICOM. As a member of CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies but requires that any individual foreign currency transaction in excess of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. International security restrictions Trade with Iraq is prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quantities of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the MOF. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 DOMINICA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of Eastern Caribbean dollar notes and coins outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts are normally confined to major exporters and may only be credited with foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not require approval, but approval is required to open them. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency For any single transaction in excess of EC$250,000, approval from the MOF is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a commercial bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports from Iraq are prohibited. Imports of specified goods originating from non-OECS countries, Belize, and CARICOM countries require a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of CARICOM (Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. Certain goods require a license for public health or safety reasons. There are certain quantitative restrictions on imports of beverages, flour, and margarine; quotas are allocated to traditional importers based on their historical market shares. Most rates are ad valorem. Effective July 1, 2001, Dominica applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, reducing the maximum tariff on most non-CARICOM goods to 20% from 25%. Lower rates apply to machinery (zero to 15%) and some essential foodstuffs (10% to 15%), while higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 297 State import monopoly Bulk imports of sugar and rice are effected by a state agency. vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1% customs service charge. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account to which the proceeds may be credited. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of protected plant and animal species to any destination. Yes. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between EC$0.55 and ECS0.60 a pound; if the export price exceeds ECS0.60 a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign currency in amounts up to EC$250,000. Amounts over this limit require approval by the MOF, which is generally granted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on payments for family maintenance and alimony, medical expenses, remittances of pensions, and studies. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests apply to payments of medical expenses. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Earnings of foreign workers may be remitted after settlement of all taxes and other public liabilities. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 DOMINICA Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no controls on subscriptions and membership fees. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions All outward transfers of capital in excess of EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations All credit operations by residents to nonresidents require MOF approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 299 Inward direct investment Nonresidents are generally required to have an alien landholding license to hold shares in private and public companies and to hold property. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. MOF approval is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are generally not permitted. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Imports and import payments July L Dominica applied the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, reducing the maximum tariff on most non-CARICOM goods to 20% from 25%. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31. 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican peso. In addition to the official exchange rate set by the Central Bank of the Dominican Re- public (CBDR), the market exchange rate reflects commercial banks' foreign exchange transactions with the public. There is also an extrabank market rate determined by foreign exchange transactions with exchange houses. The CBDR occasionally intervenes in the market via the commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers. The official exchange rate is set daily by the CBRD as a weighted average of the previous week's rate at commercial banks and exchange houses. Exchange tax A commission of 5% is charged on all sales of foreign currency. Effective October 3,2001, this commission was lowered to 4.75%. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through two accounts that were established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the LAIA. Imports (debits) and exports (credits) are re- corded in these accounts, and all payments must be invoiced in dollars. All other transac- tions must be expressed in domestic currency; however, transactions between residents and nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency. The following currencies are considered convertible: the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the Danish krone, the Norwegian krone, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements take place under reciprocal credit agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Venezuela. Administration of control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CBDR. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Whole bars of gold are sold to local industrial and handicraft enterprises through the central bank. Such sales must equal 1% of the physical volume of refined gold and silver produced each year, or no more than 2,000 troy ounces annually. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 301 Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Individuals may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. They may also buy gold as needed for industrial or handicraft purposes from the central bank, indicating in their request the purpose for which it is to be used. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the CBDR. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000 or the equivalent. Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$ 100 in coins. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Natural or juridical persons may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dol- lars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer full services. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Domestic currency may be converted to foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Natural or juridical persons may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dol- lars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer full services. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Payments for oil and certain oil derivatives are transacted through the CBDR at the official exchange rate on behalf of the refinery REFIDOMSA. All other imports must be transacted through the commercial banks and are only subject to verification of appropriate documen- tation, except for those into industrial free-trade zones. Positive list This list includes beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Imports of live animals; seeds; plants; fruits; plant and animal products that are unhealthy, decomposing, or infected with germs or parasites; and substances harmful or injurious to human, plant, or animal health are prohibited. Imports of beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and refined sugar require licenses. Prior to January 1,2001, tariff rates ranged from zero to 35%. On that date, the new Tariff Reform Law came into effect, establishing tariffs of zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. There is also a temporary import system for the entry, free of import duties and taxes, of certain goods that are to be reexported within a maximum of 18 months of being processed, worked, or repaired. In addition, there is a zero rate for imports of inputs, machinery, and equipment to be used in the textile and agricultural sectors. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Prior to November 20, 2001, a 100% surrender requirement applied to all traditional ex- ports (i.e., cocoa, sugar, coffee, tobacco, and mineral products) at the official exchange rate. Effective that date, this requirement applies only to proceeds from the following transac- tions: credit cards; loans to or loans guaranteed by the public sector; proceeds realized by Falconbridge Dominicana, foreign embassies, or from exports of minerals; sales of fuel to foreign airlines and shipping companies; and telecommunications transactions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas Licenses are required for sugar and textile exports to the United States. Bananas are subject to quantitative restrictions in the EU, as are coffee and cocoa in the markets of signatories to the International Coffee and Cocoa Agreement. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documen- tation requirements. Investment-related payments No controls are exercised on the transfer of profits. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. No controls are exercised on the transfer of pensions and family maintenance payments. Prior approval of the president of the Republic is required for the hiring of Haitian workers to harvest sugarcane. Other payments Technical assistance fees must be registered with the CBDR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 303 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements While most exchange proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the interbank market, certain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls, international credit card transactions, jet fuel, foreign embassies' operations, and receipts from insurance claims) must be surrendered to the CBDR at the official exchange rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The Law on the Securities Market sets out the legal framework governing capital market operations. On capital market securities The local capital market is still emerging; shares and bonds are not yet traded. Only the primary market's own operations are effected, with commercial paper denominated in domestic currency. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. No. To residents from nonresidents Prior CBDR approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Banks may grant unsecured loans to a single individual or legal entity for up to 15% of their capital and reserves, and up to a maximum of 30% when secured with real guarantees. This applies to both residents and nonresidents. External debt may be contracted directly by the central government, subject to congres- sional authorization. New loans by other public entities require authorization from the president of the Republic for their subsequent registration with the Monetary Board. Private external debt must be registered with the CBDR, except for foreign exchange advances on future traditional exports, which require approval from the CBDR. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Commercial and full-service banks must request prior CBDR authorization to issue foreign currency guarantees, other than for trade operations. External short-term financing by banks authorized to offer fu ll service is limited to 30% of paid-up capital and reserves. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments must be registered with the CBDR. Investment in the following sectors is pro- hibited: (1) disposal of toxic waste and of dangerous or radioactive substances not produced in the country; (2) activities that affect public health and the environment; and (3) produc- tion of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls Yes. Yes. Banks authorized to offer fu ll service may obtain financing abroad of up to one year, limited to 30% of their paid-up capital and reserves. Banks authorized to offer fu ll service may grant loans in dollars to the sectors exporting goods and services in order to finance activities specific to their functions and to the im- porting sectors in order to cover payments abroad for the acquisition of goods and services. Foreign currency deposits taken by commercial and full-service banks are subject to a 10% reserve requirement based on the official exchange rate. Banks may grant unsecured loans to a single individual or legal entity for up to 15% of their capital and reserves, and up to a maximum of 30% when secured with real guarantees. This applies to both residents and nonresidents. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Standards have been established whereby financial system entities may continuously measure, assess, and control their own exposure to exchange risk. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2001 October 3. The commission charged on all sales of foreign currency was lowered to 4.75% from 5%. January 1. The new Tariff Reform Law came into effect. The new tariffs are zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. The new law also established a maximum customs tax of 20%. November 20. The 100% surrender requirement was applied to the following transactions: credit cards; loans to or loans guaranteed by the public sector; proceeds realized by Falcon- bridge Dominicana, foreign embassies, or from exports of minerals; sales of fuel to foreign airlines and shipping companies; and telecommunications transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31, 1970. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar. The dollarization legislation provides for a lim- ited issue of domestic coins with small value to remain in circulation to facilitate small transactions and requires that they be fully backed at all times by dollars. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar, which circulates freely. No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options, and transactions in other financial derivative instruments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payment arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Exchange proceeds from all countries, except for LAIA members, must be received in con- vertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. n.a. n.a. There are arrangements with Cuba and Hungary; balances are settled every four months. Payments between Ecuador and the other LAIA countries may be made within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE). Exports must be registered with the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exportation, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives may be carried out through the free market or through the CBE. Private sector foreign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Central Bank Board (CBB). International security restrictions No. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 Payments arrears Official Private ECUADOR Arrears are maintained with respect to public and publicly guaranteed debt-service payments to official and private creditors. Commercial banks under the control of the Deposit Insurance Agency (AGO) maintain external payments arrears on trade and interbank credit lines. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Prior import licenses are required for agricultural, medical, and psychotropic imports. In addition, Petroecuador (the state oil company) may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equipment during emergencies. Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, vehicle parts and pieces, and used clothes are pro- hibited primarily to protect the environment and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also prohibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. Tariff rates for most goods are zero, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 40%. Goods imported into Ecuador are subject to additional tariffs ranging from 2% to 10%. Automobiles are subject to a 40% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. For certain agricultural goods, tariffs are imposed on those with prices below a certain lower benchmark, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 307 rebates are granted on goods with prices above an upper benchmark. Electric appliances, parts, and accessories; agricultural machinery; and second-hand engines are subject to an import tariff rate of 50%. Before concluding the negotiations for accession to the WTO, Ecuador replaced its system of price bans for 130 agricultural products with the one used by the Community of Andean Nations. No timetable for the elimination of this system has been agreed with the WTO. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities. However, export- ers may retain up to 15% from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of con- sular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not apply to ex- ports effected under authorized barter transactions or to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilateral payment agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of pay- ment. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished prod- ucts of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surrendered. Receipts in for- eign exchange for petroleum exports are effected on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. In addition, exporters may deduct from their surrender requirements the cost of kraft paper and starch or inputs and raw materials imported under the "Industrial Deposits Temporary Admission" regime when exporters require cardboard boxes for packing that are built with kraft paper and starch. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Industriali- zation, and Fisheries, and must be registered with the CBE. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports do not require licenses, but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, fish, and semifinished cocoa products are subject to minimum reference prices. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of $0.5 a barrel. A fee of $1.02 a barrel, based on the viscosity of the crude oil and the distance it is transported (in kilometers), is applied to crude oil exported through the pipeline. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 ECUADOR Controls on capital and money market instruments On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these instruments. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on the issue of these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the CBB. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the CBB, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the CBB considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the CBE within 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Reserve requirements Effective January 11,2001, the reserve requirement was reduced to 4% from 8%. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 309 Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 11. The reserve requirement was reduced to 4% from 8%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Arab Republic of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Prior to January 30, 2001, the Egyptian pound was pegged to the dollar. On that date, al- though the peg to the dollar remained (at LE 3.85 per $1), a band of 1% was introduced. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) announces the central rate, and all foreign exchange trades by banks and foreign exchange bureaus must take place within a ±1% range around this central rate. The CBE may adjust the central rate in light of market conditions. Accord- ingly, the exchange rate arrangement of Egypt has been reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. During 2001, the CBE's central rate was gradually depreciated to LE 4.50 per $1 from LE 3.85 per $1 and the band was widened to ±3% from ±1%. Effective January 13, 2002, the CBE's central rate was further depreciated to LE 4.51 per $1. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in a free (kerb) market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes and traveler's checks) on their own account. These transactions are conducted in cash. However, nonbank author- ized dealers are not permitted to deal in transfers into or out of the country. Foreign ex- change dealers must sell all working-day foreign currency surpluses in excess of their au- thorized operating balances to commercial banks. The spread between the CBE buying and selling rates for foreign exchange is about 0.50%. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transac- tions for their own account. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force, certain settlements are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the CBE. The balances of these accounts are minimal. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements with Sudan are made in accordance with the terms of the bilateral agreement. An account denominated in pounds sterling has been set up to liquidate debts owed to FSU countries under terminated bilateral payments arrangements. There is an inoperative agreement with Sudan. Regional arrangements Egypt is a member of the COMESA. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 3 11 Administration of control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions within the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On April 7, 2002, the CBE notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze ac- counts and assets of listed persons and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Further, the authorities are establishing the Financial Intelligence Unit, which will coordi- nate all issues related to money laundering and financial terrorism. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payments arrears There are limited technical payment arrears with certain non-Paris Club creditors. Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or customers' accounts, in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out up to LE 1,000. On imports Domestic currency Persons arriving in Egypt may import up to LE 1,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Balances may be converted through the foreign exchange market. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar ac- counts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 EGYPT Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Margins for LCs opened by importers are 100 percent. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Most items may be imported freely. Import taxes and/or tariffs Products are classified into seven groups for customs purposes, with tariff rates ranging up to 40%, with several exceptions. Surcharges at rates of 2% and 3% apply to most imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held indefinitely abroad or in local free accounts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls under the Foreign Exchange Law and Regulations on the issuing of securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in securities denominated in foreign cur- rencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign exchange market may be used for transferring proceeds associated with the sale of both Egyptian securities and foreign securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 313 Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval of the Capital Market Authority is required for issuing bonds. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Derivatives do not exist in the Egyptian market. No controls are applied if the maturity of the commercial credits is one year or less and if these credits are received by the private sector. Ministries, governmental administrations, public authorities, and public sector companies are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than one year. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or projects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. There are no general controls, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. No. Yes. Yes. No. Deposits in foreign currencies held by either nationals or foreign nationals are subject to a 10% requirement (the reserve ratio requirement of deposits in Egyptian pounds is 14%), which must be deposited with the CBE at LIBOR. Liquid asset requirements The requirement for assets in foreign currencies is 25%, and 20% for assets in Egyptian pounds. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits All banks operating in Egypt (except branches of foreign banks) are prohibited from depos- iting or having investment securities worth more than 40% of their capital base or 10% of their total investment abroad, whichever is lower, with a foreign correspondent bank. Ac- cording to the Banking Law, all banks operating in Egypt are prohibited from owning shares exceeding 40% of issued capital in joint-stock companies, locally or abroad. In addi- tion, the face value of the shares owned by the bank in these companies may not exceed the value of the bank's issued capital and reserves. Shareholdings by residents or nonresidents in any bank in Egypt that exceed 10% of the bank's capital require approval from the CBE Board of Directors. The limits are (1) for each currency (local or foreign), 10% of Tier I and Tier II capital; (2) for total long or short positions, 20% of Tier I and Tier II capital; and (3) total foreign assets to total foreign liabilities, or vice versa, not to exceed 105%. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 EGYPT Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2001 January 30. A band system was adopted, with a central rate that is set by the CBE with a permitted trading range around the central rate. The central rate was initially set at LE 3.85 per $1 and the band was set at ±1%. Thus, the exchange rate system of Egypt was reclassi- fied to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category con- ventional pegged arrangement. May 28. The central rate of the currency band was depreciated to LE 3.86 per $1. July 3. The central rate of the currency band was depreciated to LE 3.90 per $1 and the permitted trading range was widened to ±1.5%. August 5. The central rate of the currency band was depreciated to LE 4.15 per $1 and the permitted trading range was widened to ±3%. December 13. The central rate of the currency band was depreciated to LE 4.50 per $1. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 13. The CBE's central rate was depreciated to LE 4.51 per $1. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 7. The CBE notified the IMF that banks had been instructed to freeze accounts and assets of listed persons and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 6,1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender Effective January 1,2001, the dollar became legal tender and circulates freely at a fixed rate of C8.75 per $1. Payments may be made in either dollars or colones. Silver and gold coins in denominations of C150 and C2,500, respectively, are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Effective January 1, 2001, the Central Reserve Bank (CRB) ceased to publish the daily exchange rates that were applied to its transactions with the public sector and to the calcula- tion of tax obligations. At the same time, the dollar became the legal tender and circulates freely. The dollar is used as a unit of account and a medium of exchange, with no limita- tions. The CRB is obligated to exchange colones in circulation for the dollar upon request from banks at a fixed and unalterable exchange rate of C8.75 per $1. As a result, El Salva- dor's exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified from the category conventional pegged arrangement to the category exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. El Salvador is a member of the CACM. All private sector foreign exchange transactions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centre de Tr£mites de Exportaci6n issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. No. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 EL SALVADOR Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks and exchange houses or used to make payments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these ac- counts are not restricted, but the commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the CRB on the use of such accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits issued by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for ethyl alcohol, sugar, and wheat flour. Most import tariffs range up to 10%, although higher tariffs are applied to some products, such as automobiles (25-30%); alcoholic beverages (30%); and textiles and luxury goods (20%). There are no tariffs on capital goods and selected inputs. Exporters of nontradi- tional products to markets outside Central America receive duty drawbacks on imported raw materials equivalent to 6% of f.o.b. value of exports. Tariffs on imports of intermedi- ate goods from outside the Central American region are 5-10%, and those on consumption goods are 15%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. All exports must be registered, with the exception of exports amounting to less than $5,000, unless the product specifications call for such certification. Export permits, issued by the MOE, are required for diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 317 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. The foreign investment law limits inward direct investments in economic sectors, such as commerce, industry, certain services, and fisheries (pesca de bajura). Investments in certain public works—e.g., railroads, piers, and canals—require government approval. Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be registered with the MOE for statistical purposes. Certain minimum capital re- quirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resi- dent shareholders. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad For statistical purposes, authorized banks are required to report to the CRB all transactions involving sums equivalent to $5,000 or higher. In addition, the anti-money laundering law requires authorized banks to report to the CRB multiple transactions by a single individual involving sums equivalent to $500,000 or higher if there is evidence that the transactions are not bona fide. External borrowing by financial institutions is subject to a reserve requirement of 10%. The CRB remunerates commercial banks' liquidity reserves based on the overnight rate (Citibank) plus 0.25%. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks is 10% of capital and reserves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Pension funds may only invest locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 EL SALVADOR Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurance companies are permitted to invest abroad up to the limit specified by law. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2001 January 1. The CRB stopped publishing the daily exchange rates. The Monetary Integra- tion Law came into effect. This law fixed the exchange rate of the co!6n to the dollar at C8.75 and made the dollar legal tender. All permitted payments must be made in either dollars or colones. The dollar is used as a unit of account. The CRB is obligated to ex- change colones in circulation for the dollar upon request from banks at the fixed exchange rate. As a result, El Salvador's exchange rate arrangement was reclassified from the cat- egory conventional pegged arrangement to the category exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission, which is set freely by commercial banks, is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. This commission is not levied on transfers relating to central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license and domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly contracted abroad, travel allowances paid by the government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of insurance premiums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Equatorial Guinea is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made freely in CFA francs, French francs (through December 31,2001; euros from January 1, 2002), or the currency of any other Operations Account country, subject to the requirement that transfers of more than CFAF 2 million to Operations Account countries must be declared for statistical purposes. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in francs/euros through foreign accounts. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regula- tions of member countries in the CEMAC are harmonized. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Exchange Control (DNCC) of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Exchange transactions with all countries must be effected through authorized banks. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Yes. Yes. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry. They must have the ap- proval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the MEF; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in other means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexport of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexport of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, the European Central Bank (from January 1, 2002), or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. No. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Principal nonresident accounts in foreign currency are accounts denominated in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002) and dollars. Accounts in euros are treated identically to accounts in domestic currency. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Approval is required, except for accounts in euros. Because the BEAC suspended the repurchase of its banknotes circulating outside the terri- tories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 321 authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports There are no restrictions on import financing, but certified bank documents are required. Import payments may be settled at authorized banks. Minimum financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required, except for imports of gold. Negative list Imports of some goods are prohibited for security, health, or safety reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Equatorial Guinea applies the common duty rates of the UDEAC on imports from non- members (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for in- termediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxury goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from this repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered within eight days following repatriation. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions valued at CFAF 2 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements and the presentation of appropriate documents. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments in excess of CFAF 2 million for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the MEF. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underlying trade transactions have been approved or do not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the underlying transactions have been approved. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to the payment of freight and insurance costs. Investment-related payments Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The transfer of rental income from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to 50% of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to payments of profit and dividends. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for business or tourist travel, the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip with no limit on the number of trips; (2) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the MEF or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (3) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEF, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. These regulations are administered liberally, and bona fide requests for allowances in excess of these limits are normally granted. Returning resi- dent travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of all means of payment registered in their names is not restricted, subject to documentation that they were pur- chased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Except in the case of expatriates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, pay- ments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the DNCC. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 323 Quantitative limits The transfer abroad of salaries of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay vouchers, together with records of the expenses, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period concerned. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEF, is limited to the ceilings for tourist and business travel allowances. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within one month of the due date. Proceeds earned in countries outside the CFA franc zone must be surrendered within one month of collection if received in foreign currency. Returning resident travelers are re- quired to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital transfers between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are free of control, ex- cept for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 EQUATORIAL GUINEA On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain privileges are granted to approved direct investments, including the unrestricted transfer abroad of debt payment and net profits. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents- Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets A bona fide test is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 325 Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Eritrea is the Eritrean nakfa. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Effective August 1, 2001, foreign exchange bureaus and authorized banks were allowed to transact in foreign exchange at market-determined exchange rates; however, the buying exchange rate has remained at ERN 13.5 per $1. Previously, the exchange rate of the nakfa was pegged to the dollar at ERN 10 per $1. The Bank of Eritrea (BE) prescribes a 0.25% commission on purchases of foreign ex- change, except for banknote transactions (effective August 15, 2001, a 0.75% commis- sion on sales of foreign exchange prescribed by the BE was repealed). Authorized dealers are permitted, but not required, to levy an additional service charge of up to 0.25% for buying and 0.75% for selling foreign exchange on their own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. There are no restrictions on the use of foreign exchange among residents. Eritrea is a member of the COMES A. A clearing arrangement exists between the members of the COMESA. The BE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers and issues dealers' licenses. It may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents; the Ministry of Trade and Industry regulates foreign investments. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. On August 15, 2001, new regulations—defined in Legal Notice No. 49/2001—came into force, effectively lifting all exchange controls. No. No. Authorization from the Ministry of Energy and Mines is required for the ownership or pos- session of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewelry without restrictions. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency holdings upon entry or departure. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts 327 ERITREA Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. The opening of these accounts is restricted to resident banks. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are available only to members of the diplomatic community; welfare or- ganizations; nongovernmental organizations and their personnel; and joint ventures and other business firms that invest their capital, wholly or partially, in foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Most imports financed with official foreign exchange are effected under LCs or on a cash- against-documents basis. Advance import deposits These are required only for LC type of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. All commodities may be imported freely, with some exceptions. Yes. All importers must have a valid trade license issued by the National Licensing Office. Taxes collected through the exchange system A commission of 2% is collected on imports that do not require official foreign exchange and are not aid-funded (franco valuta imports). State import monopoly The imports of military materials, weapons, armaments, and the like are conducted by the state. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of shipment; where justified, this deadline may be extended by another 90 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 ERITREA Financing requirements Exports may be made under LCs on an advance-payment basis or on a consignment basis. Documentation requirements All exports require documentation. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the Ministry of Marine Resources. Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities with the approval of the BE. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 329 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and whole- sale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; this latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved investments and their subsequent expansion are exempted from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks may maintain correspondent accounts with their counterparts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement August L Foreign exchange bureaus and authorized banks were allowed to transact in foreign exchange at market-determined exchange rates. August 15. The 0.75% commission on sales of foreign exchange was repealed. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 15. New regulations—defined in Legal Notice No. 49/2001—came into force, effectively lifting all exchange controls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 37, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Estonia is the Estonian kroon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the euro at the rate of EEK 15.6466 per €1. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) provides commercial banks with the possibility of buying or selling foreign exchange to adjust their kroon liquidity. All transactions are initiated by commercial banks. For licensed credit institutions, the BOE is obliged to exchange euros and the other EU currencies, Japanese yen, and dollars for Estonian krooni and vice versa without limits. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the Estonian kroon against the euro or the other EU currencies. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely effected by commercial banks, which may freely quote their own exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Estonia has bilateral agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyr- gyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Kroon balances held by the central banks of these countries in their correspon- dent accounts are fully convertible without delay. No swing credits or overdraft facilities are provided by these arrangements. Commercial banks in Estonia are free to open their own correspondent accounts with commercial banks in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. Administration of control The BOE issues and enforces foreign exchange regulations. The MOF controls and monitors imports and exports, and licenses gold trading. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Some external debt issues with Russia and certain other countries of the FSU are not yet settled. Official All external debt with Russia is official. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade International trade in gold is subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 3 31 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Open general licenses are required for the following goods: alcohol; food; fuel and energy; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; precious metals and stones; radioactive materials and devices; tobacco; and weapons. Licenses or special permits are required to import the following goods: explosives; weap- ons; radio broadcast equipment; plants; seeds; rare species of animals; goods subject to veterinary, food, and phytosanitary control; plant preservatives and fertilizers; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; audiovisual recording and production equipment; lottery tickets; strategic goods; radioactive materials; motor vehicles; products that decrease the ozone layer; precious metals, stones, and articles containing these prod- ucts; and dangerous and other waste products. Other nontariff measures Imports of certain dangerous chemicals are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise duties are levied on tobacco, alcohol, motor vehicles, fuel, and packaging materi- als. Imports are also subject to a state duty and a VAT of 18%, which is also levied on domestically produced goods. According to the law, foodstuffs originating from countries with which Estonia has not concluded a free trade agreement are subject to customs duties. Free trade agreements have been concluded with the EFTA, the EU, the Czech Republic, the Faroe Islands, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Ukraine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 ESTONIA State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The export of certain dangerous chemicals is prohibited. Licenses or special permits are required for alcohol; items of cultural value; precious met- als, precious stones, and articles containing these products; medicinal products; weapons; explosives; rare species of plants and animals and hunting trophies; goods subject to veteri- nary, food, and phytosanitary control; narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances; strategic goods; radioactive substances; and dangerous and other waste products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Financial guarantees to nonresident credit institutions are subject to reserve requirements. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Under the Security Service Act, the government may restrict participation of foreign capital in the assets of a security service enterprise. At present, foreign capital in the aviation and maritime transport sectors may not exceed 49%. This control will be abolished upon accession to the EU. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents This is subject to approval by the county governor concerned. Acquisition of real estate is prohibited in the following areas: the islands, except for the four largest islands; and certain local municipalities bordering Russia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 333 Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents There is a control on the giving of real estate as a gift. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements These accounts are subject to a 13% reserve requirement. Effective January 1, 2001, com- mercial banks may hold 25% of this amount in high-quality, euro-denominated financial instruments. Effective July 1, 2001, this limit was raised to 50% of the amount. Net liabilities to foreign credit institutions are subject to a reserve requirement, but liabili- ties to domestic credit institutions are not. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investment funds are restricted from investing their assets in nongovernmental securities of certain countries. No controls are applied to the EU or the EEA countries. With respect to other countries, investment is permitted only in accordance with the respective list made by the MOF. Investments in foreign real estate may not exceed 25% of total assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Commercial banks were allowed to hold 25% of the 13% reserve requirement in high-quality, euro-denominated financial instruments. July L The amount of the reserve requirement that commercial banks are allowed to hold in high-quality, euro-denominated financial instruments was increased to 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian birr. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Effective October 25, 2001, the wholesale auction system was terminated and the official exchange rate of the birr against the dollar is to be determined in the interbank foreign exchange market as the weighted average exchange rate prevailing on the preceding day. Prior to that date, the official exchange rate of the birr against the dollar was the marginal rate (i.e., the lowest successful bid) determined in weekly auctions for announced quantities of foreign exchange, as determined by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). An interbank market for trading domestic and foreign exchange funds was in operation. A wholesale foreign exchange market replaced the retail auction. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to engage in all approved spot/cash current transactions. Authorized banks must observe a prescribed commission of 1.5% on selling, which accrues to the NBE. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign currencies among themselves. Ethiopia is a member of COMESA. Payments may be made within the framework of COMESA. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 335 Administration of control The NBE has transferred to commercial banks the responsibility for determining compliance of buyers and sellers of foreign exchange with import- and export- licensing requirements and foreign exchange regulations. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. No. Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownership of personal jewelry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the Minis- try of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permit- ted. Private companies may directly export newly worked gold, silver, and jewelry. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers may take out Br 100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign ex- change. Reconversion of birr to foreign exchange of up to the equivalent of $150 may be made without the presentation of any documentary evidence; for amounts exceeding $150, the presentation of authenticated documentary evidence is required, indicating that the equivalent amount of foreign exchange was lawfully converted into local currency. Travelers may bring in Br 100 in currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks may open foreign exchange retention accounts for eligible exporters of goods and recipients of inward remittances without prior approval from the NBE. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Exporters of services may open foreign exchange retention accounts with the NBE's approval. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Three types of nonresident accounts may be opened: foreign currency accounts, nonresi- dent transferable birr accounts, and nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign currency. The balances in the first two accounts may be transferred freely abroad or used for international payment purposes, while the balance in the nonresident nontransferable birr account is to be used mainly for local ex- penses. Transfer of funds from foreign currency accounts and nonresident transferable bin- accounts to nonresident nontransferable birr accounts do not require NBE approval. Diplomatic bodies, members of international organizations, and foreign investors may open all three types of foreign exchange accounts. Other nonresidents may open only nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 ETHIOPIA Convertible into foreign currency Approval is required for the conversion of the balances in nonresident nontransferable bin- accounts into foreign currency accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are allowed only for individuals or enterprises engaged in export activities and/or who generate foreign exchange. Final invoices that separately show f.o.b. cost and freight charges and nonnegotiable bills of lading are required. Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applica- tions for exchange licenses must be accompanied by information on costs and payment terms and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with an Ethiopian insurance company. Domiciliation requirements Importers are required to insure their goods with local insurance companies. Preshipment inspection Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from the import-licensing requirement. Negative list The list includes items restricted for reasons of health and security. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from this requirement. The item-weighted average tariff rate is 19.5%. Effective February 1, 2001, a 5% withhold- ing tax on imports was introduced. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters may retain 10% of their export proceeds in foreign exchange for an indefi- nite period. The remaining balance may be retained for a period of up to 28 days, after which it must be converted into local currency at the weighted average daily interbank exchange rate. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters must prove to the NBE that they have repatriated 100% of previous export earnings before being allowed to export again. Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes An export credit guarantee scheme is operational. All exports are processed by commercial banks, with the exception of coffee exports. The exportation of coffee is subject to a tax of 6.5% of the exported value. Effective April 1,2001, exporters are exempt from this tax when the price falls below $0.70 a pound for unwashed coffee or $1.05 a pound for washed coffee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 337 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Approval is given by the commercial banks. Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification of documentary evidence is required for unloading, storage, commission, and administrative expenses. Investment-related payments Prior approval After paying local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Prior approval for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments is required mainly for government transactions made through the MOF. Indicative limits/bona fide test These are subject to an assessment based on the NBE's criteria. Verification of contractual agreement between parties is required by the NBE. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Effective March 30, 2001, persons traveling abroad on holiday or business may purchase up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the rest in traveler's checks or drafts (previously, they were allowed to purchase up to $1,200 directly from foreign exchange bureaus oper- ated by commercial banks only). For government travel, the allowance amounts vary by the country of destination and foreign currency required, based on the cost of living. Yes. Yes. There are no limits on allowance for medical treatment and studies abroad. A foreign ex- change bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide medical treatment abroad upon presentation of a medical board certificate, a passport, a valid exit visa, and an air transpor- tation ticket. A foreign exchange bureau may sell up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the balance in traveler's checks or drafts. Additional foreign exchange may be approved for a patient being treated abroad, provided that the application is supported by bona fide medical bills or hospital statements. A foreign exchange bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide tuition fee, subsis- tence, and other associated educational expenses upon presentation of a letter of admission and evidence of student attendance at an institution. Sales of foreign exchange to a student may be approved, up to $400 or its equivalent in cash or traveler's checks. The tuition fee, subsistence, and other associated educational expenses must be paid directly through bank transfer or draft to the educational institution. Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health is required for medical payments. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign contractual employees of the government may take out foreign exchange, not ex- ceeding their net earnings during the terms of service and upon final departure. However, the value of free accommodations, gratuities, accumulated leave pay, and similar benefits may not be included for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out foreign exchange on final departure, not exceeding their net earnings. Foreign employees of embassies, legations, consulates, and international organizations whose salaries are fu l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside Ethiopia may take out and/or transfer their net earnings, not exceeding the balance in their nonresident foreign currency account, nonresident transferable birr account, and/or nonresident nontransferable birr account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test ETHIOPIA Yes. Documentation is required from the overseas institute and approval must be given by com- mercial banks for subscription and membership fees. NBE verification of contractual agreements between the parties is required for the transfer of legal fees, and applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Ten percent of proceeds may be retained indefinitely. The remaining balance may be retained for a period of 28 days only. These funds may be used for payments such as imports of goods and services, export promotion, training and education, credit repayment, and other payments approved by the NBE. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities There is no market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There is no market in these instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks need prior approval from the NBE to borrow funds abroad, but do not need prior approval for overdrawing their accounts with foreign correspondents or accepting deposits. Other residents need to obtain the NBE's prior approval, and the credits should be used for export-generating investments. The equity component of the debt/equity ratio of the loan should not be less than 40%, except when the NBE issues a waiver. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks may issue guarantees on behalf of foreign banks to resident companies. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment ETHIOPIA 339 Foreign investors may hold up to 100% of the shares in any venture, except in the banking, insurance, and transport sectors, and may trade above a certain limit. Investment in telecommunications and defense industries is allowed in partnership with the government. Investments in rail transport service, postal service (except courier service), the generation and supply of electricity above an installed capacity of 25 megawatts, as well as transmission and supply of electric energy through the Integrated National Grid System are reserved for the government. All investments must be approved and certified by the Ethiopian Investment Authority (EIA). Investments are allowed in areas such as agriculture, livestock and crop production, manufacturing, mining, construction, real estate, machinery leasing, social services, education, health, engineering services, technology- intensive industries, pharmaceutical and fertilizer production, and hotels and tourism. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. The EIA may decide on additional or new incentives when it deems this necessary. Authorization by the EIA is required for repatriation of capital. Registration of capital in- flows with the EIA establishes the evidence of inflows required for authorization. All rec- ognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of docu- ments regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign investors may transfer their capital without limitations upon final departure from Ethiopia. All foreign investors may also transfer abroad in con- vertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Ethiopian passport holders may purchase real estate in Ethiopia. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Regulations on financial credits apply. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transactions are not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Banks may not borrow from, or enter into a guarantee agreement with, banks abroad unless authorized by the NBE. Banks may maintain nostro accounts with their correspondents. Ethiopian airlines and shipping lines are also allowed to maintain accounts abroad. All deposit accounts in foreign exchange must be in the form of demand deposits on which interest is not paid. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls ETHIOPIA All deposit accounts in foreign exchange must be in the form of demand deposits on which interest is not paid. All nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits on which interest is not paid. Open foreign exchange position limits The overall foreign currency position of each bank should not exceed 15% of its capital at the close of business on each Friday. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Residents are not allowed to invest in foreign securities. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement October 25. The wholesale auction system was terminated, and the official exchange rate of the birr against the dollar is to be determined in the interbank foreign exchange market as the weighted average exchange rate prevailing on the preceding day. Imports and import payments February L A 5% withholding tax on imports was introduced. Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April L Exporters were made exempt from the coffee tax when the price falls below $0.70 a pound for unwashed coffee or $1.05 a pound for washed coffee. March 30. The limit on travel allowances was eliminated. Persons traveling abroad on business or holiday were allowed to purchase up to the equivalent of $400 in cash and the rest in traveler's checks or drafts. Previously, they were allowed to purchase up to $1,200 directly from foreign exchange bureaus operated by commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4,1972. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Fiji is the Fiji dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The external value of the Fiji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the euro, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. No. No. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exporters and up to nine months for importers, with a limit of 100% of their capital (prior to January 1, 2002, 50%), except for oil companies, for which the limit is 50% of invoice value. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Although no specific requirements exist, settlements must be made in convertible curren- cies acceptable to both countries. Fiji participates in the following arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrange- ment, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the RBF, acting as an agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and trans- fers up to specified limits. Effective January 1, 2001, documentary evidence is required for amounts above F$2,000. In addition, authorized dealers are permitted to provide up to F$50,000 for certain capital and emigrant transfers. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade n.a. n.a. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins but not gold bullion. The exportation of gold coins, except coins and collectors' pieces for numismatic purposes, requires specific permission from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license from the MOF; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bullion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to a 10% VAT. Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but subject to a 10% VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$ 1,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 3%. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 FIJI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective January 1, 2001, exports are allowed of up to F$500 a trip for travel-related purposes only. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the time of arrival. Local travelers are allowed up to a F$5,000 cash equivalent in foreign currency (inclusive of a maximum of F$500 in local currency) for each overseas trip. Travelers may freely bring in Fiji banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigration officials on arrival. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to cus- toms or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Applicable to resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Fiji dollar resident (FDR) accounts may be maintained by resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. Ex- ternal Fiji dollar and foreign currency accounts are maintained by nonresident individuals and businesses. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. Effec- tive January 1, 2002, resident individuals may open these accounts without RBF approval, while resident businesses require RBF approval to open accounts for amounts exceeding F$100,000. Approval required Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, or with payments from other external accounts. Effective January 1, 2001, commercial banks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for re- gional and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax); with interest payable on the account; with payments from other external accounts; with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder; and with Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji, or acquired by debit to an external ac- count, or acquired through the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to credit proceeds of sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts up to F$ 100,000 a sale (prior to January 1, 2002, F$50,000). Other unspecified funds may be deposited up to F$ 1,000 a month. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 343 Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Effective January 1, 2002, authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports of up to the equivalent of F$l million an application (previously F$500,000), if such payments are required by the supplier. Additionally, documentary evidence is needed for remittances above the equivalent of F$2,000 (previously F$ 1,000). Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an OGL. Yes. Yes. Imports of poultry and poultry products and lubrication oils from any source require a spe- cific import license. The Ministry of Commerce, Business Development, and Investment (MCBDI) is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold and timber. Import licenses and other nontariff measures for gold are issued by the MOF; for timber, they are issued by the Ministry of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods is imported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. The import license for cyclonic building materials is jointly issued by the Department of Fair Trading and Consumer Affairs and the MOF. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Import licenses for frozen chicken from the United States are issued on a quota basis. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expira- tion date requirements. All agricultural and forestry products are subject to quarantine clearance. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tariffs are zero, 3%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 27%. For a few items, import tariffs of 15% and 20% apply. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Customs is delegated to process and approve all export of goods with no monetary return. The retention limit on export proceeds is 40%. Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks may approve the offset of earnings from foreign exchange for import payments and other payables of up to F$500,000 an invoice on import payments (increased from F$ 100,000) or F$50,000 an invoice (increased from F$ 10,000) for other payables. On January 1, 2002, these limits were increased to F$l million and F$ 100,000, respectively. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export licenses are issued by the customs department and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain types of lumber, certain animals, and a few other items. The MCBDI is responsible for issuing export licenses for trochus shells, petroleum, and petroleum products. Irrespec- tive of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for the commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 FIJI Export taxes A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar, gold, and silver. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most payments have been fully delegated to authorized banks up to a certain limit. Effec- tive January 1,2002, documentary evidence is required for amounts above F$2,000. Insur- ance transfers are subject to the approval of the Insurance Unit of the RBF and are then delegated to commercial banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits Payment of interest is allowed, provided prior approval for the loan was granted by the RBF, if the loan is in excess of F$500,000. Effective January 1,2001, the repatriation of profits is limited to F$5 million a year (previ- ously F$l million a year) and requires RBF approval, and dividend profit remittances are limited to three years' retained earnings annually, if not previously remitted (increased from one year's retained earnings). Effective January 1, 2002, the limit on repatriation of profits is subject to a limit of F$10 million a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Amounts exceeding F$ 10,000 a person require RBF permission. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1,2001, commercial banks are allowed to make payments for medical expenses of up to F$50,000; these payments are to be made directly to the institution. Ef- fective January 1, 2002, this limit was increased to F$ 100,000. If the payment is made to the beneficiary, the limit is F$ 10,000 a year (previously F$5,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks are allowed to provide foreign currency to pay wages to foreign crew members of up to F$5,000 of the amount due a beneficiary (in- creased from F$ 1,000). Effective January 1, 2002, this limit was increased to F$ 10,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2001, authorized banks are allowed to provide monthly payments of up to F$ 10,000 a cardholder (increased from F$7,500 a card holder) and cash drawings of up to F$500 a cardholder a month. Effective January 1, 2002, the cash drawing limit was increased to F$5,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Quantitative limits Effective January 1,2001, authorized banks are allowed to approve the following pay- ments: payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities, up to F$50,000 of the amount due (increased from F$ 10,000); and refunds on cancelled hotel bookings, up to F$ 10,000 of the amount due (increased from F$5,000 an application). Effective Janu- ary 1, 2002, both of these limits were increased to F$ 100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 345 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Residents are required to sell all their foreign currency receipts to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions All capital transfers require RBF approval. Effective January 1, 2001, the authority to au- thorize investments by nonresidents for amounts up to F$500,000 (previously F$ 100,000) was delegated to the following institutions: (1) the South Pacific Stock Exchange, for in- vestments in listed companies; and (2) commercial banks, for investments in Fiji dollar- denominated deposits. Some of the funding for these investments must be from abroad or from earnings in Fiji. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 1, 2001, domestic companies are allowed to invest abroad up to F$50,000 a company a year, and these investments were restricted to the establishment of subsidiary offices. Effective January 1, 2002, this limit was increased to F$ 100,000. These invest- ments are now open to equity purchases. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are controls on all transactions in bonds or other debt securities. On money market instruments There are controls on all transactions in money market instruments. On collective investment securities There are controls on all transactions in collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations There are controls on all derivatives transactions. Residents must obtain prior permission from the RBF to borrow abroad amounts exceeding F$500,000 in foreign currency. RBF permission is also required for any up-front fees pay- ments. Effective January 1, 2002, authorized banks may release up to F$50,000 of the amount due for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments. Effective January 1, 2001, new borrowing or guarantee by nonresident-controlled business entities is restricted to F$5 million (previously F$l million), and that by nonresident individuals is restricted to F$200,000 (previously F$ 100,000). Effective January 1,2002, these limits were increased to F$10 million and F$500,000, respectively. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 FIJI Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The authority to limit bank guarantees is fully delegated to commercial banks. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Effective January 1,2002, nonbank financial institutions may invest up to F$l million. The limit on overseas investment for individuals and families is F$20,000 a taxpayer in 2002 (F$ 10,000 in 2001). The limit on expenditure to set up sales offices or subsidies abroad by local companies is F$ 100,000 in 2002 (F$50,000 in 2001). Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from nonresident sources. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Such transactions require specific permission from the RBF, which is readily granted upon evidence that the investment funds originated offshore. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in full the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on invest- ments. Effective January 1,2002, the transfer of investments is limited to F$10 million a year (increased from F$5 million a year in 2001). Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Approval by the Ministry of Lands and the Native Land Trust Board is required for pur- chases of state-owned property and designated Native Lease properties. Settlements off- shore of sale transactions in which both parties are nonresidents require RBF permission. Controls on settlements are effected to safeguard local interest before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. All transfers by emigrants require prior RBF approval and, effective January 1, 2001, the emigration allowance is limited to F$250,000 semiannually a family for emigrants residing permanently overseas (previously F$ 150,000 a family). Effective January 1, 2002, RBF approval is not required for amounts up to F$50,000 and the annual limit is F$500,000. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Effective January 1,2001, (1) the limits for lending to a newly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that was controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji was raised to F$5 million (effective January 1, 2002, this limit was raised to F$10 million); (2) lenders are also allowed to authorize temporary over- drafts without reference to the RBF, provided fu ll clearance of overdrafts is carried out within 30 days; and (3) borrowing by nonresident individuals is delegated to lending insti- tutions and commercial banks for amounts up to F$200,000. Effective January 1,2002, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 347 limit on borrowing by nonresidents from lending institutions and commercial banks was raised to F$500,000. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks and nonbank financial institutions may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the RBF. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. An individual may (together with his or her relatives) own up to 15% of the voting shares of a bank or credit institution. Ownership through a company may be up to 30%. This does not preclude the establishment of branches or subsidiaries incorporated in Fiji of 100% nonresident-controlled financial institutions. Net open position limits in terms of each bank's actual capital are set at the greater of 12.5% or F$0.4 million, and 25% or F$0.8 million up to a maximum of F$7.5 million, for a single currency and overall foreign currency, respectively. The limit on gross outstanding forward foreign exchange sales contracts is set at 50% of each bank's capital in Fiji, provided net outstanding forward exchange sales contracts do not exceed F$15 million. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective January 1, 2001, the Fiji National Provident Fund is limited to F$5 million in offshore investments. Effective January 1, 2002, this amount was increased to F$ 10 million. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 2001 January 1. Documentary evidence was required for current payments and transfers above F$2,000 and certain capital and emigrant transfers of up to F$50,000 were delegated to authorized dealers. January 1. The limit for exports of domestic currency was set at F$500 a person a trip. January L Authorized banks were allowed to open foreign currency accounts for regional and international organizations. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve the offset of earnings from foreign exchange for import payments and other payables of up to F$500,000 an invoice for import payments (increased from F$ 100,000) or F$50,000 an invoice (increased from F$ 10,000) for other payments. January 1. Repatriation of profits was limited to F$5 million a year (previously F$l million a year). Dividend profit remittances were limited to three years' retained earnings a year, if not previously remitted (increased from one year's retained earnings). January L Commercial banks were allowed to make payments for medical expenses of up to F$50,000; these payments are to be made directly to the institution. January L Authorized banks were allowed to pay wages in foreign currency to foreign crew members of up to F$5,000 of the amount due to a beneficiary (increased from F$ 1,000). January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to make a monthly payment of up to F$ 10,000 a cardholder (increased from F$7,500 a cardholder) and up to F$500 cash drawing a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 FIJI Capital transactions January L Authorized banks were allowed to approve (1) payments by companies for pen- sions, superannuations, or gratuities (up to F$50,000 of the amount due, increased from F$ 10,000); and (2) refunds on cancelled hotel bookings (up to F$ 10,000 of the amount due, increased from F$5,000 an application). January 1. The South Pacific Stock Exchange and the commercial banks were allowed to authorize investments in a publicly listed company and Fiji dollar-denominated deposits of nonresidents for amounts up to F$500,000 (previously F$ 100,000). Controls on capital and money market instruments January L Domestic companies were allowed to invest abroad up to F$50,000 a company a year. Controls on credit operations January L New borrowing or guarantees by nonresident-controlled business entities were restricted to F$5 million a year (increased from F$l million), and these transactions by nonresident individuals were restricted to F$200,000 (increased from F$ 100,000). Controls on liquidation of direct investment January L Liquidation of investments was limited to F$5 million a year (from F$l million a year). Controls on personal capital transactions January L Allowance for emigrants residing permanently overseas was limited to F$250,000 semiannually a family (previously F$ 150,000 a family). Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L The limit on establishment of a new company by nonresidents was raised to F$5 million, and borrowing by nonresident individuals was delegated to lending institutions and commercial banks for amounts of up to F$200,000. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L Offshore investments by the Fiji National Provident Fund were limited to F$5 million. Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 2002 January L Trade transactions using forward exchange facilities were allowed for up to 100% of capital (previously 50%), except for oil companies, for which the limit is 50% of invoice value. January L Resident individuals were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts without approval, while resident businesses were required to receive RBF approval to open ac- counts for amounts exceeding F$ 100,000. January L The amount that authorized banks are allowed to credit proceeds of sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts was increased to F$ 100,000 a sale from F$50,000. January L The amount for which authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports was increased to F$l million an application from F$500,000, and the amount above which documentary evidence is required was increased to F$2,000 from F$ 1,000. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to approve the offset of earnings from foreign exchange for import payments and other payables of up to F$l million an invoice for im- port payments (increased from F$500,000) or F$ 100,000 an invoice (increased from F$50,000) for other payables. January L Documentation requirements were imposed on amounts exceeding F$2,000. January 1. The repatriation of profits was made subject to a limit of F$10 million a year. January L The limit on payments by authorized banks for medical expenses was increased to F$ 100,000 a beneficiary a year from F$50,000. These payments are to be made directly to the institution. In the case of payments made to the beneficiary, the limit was increased to F$ 10,000 a year from F$5,000. January L The amount that authorized banks are allowed to pay in wages in foreign cur- rency to foreign crew members was increased to F$l 0,000 from F$5,000. January L Authorized banks were allowed to provide cash drawings of up to F$5,000 (previously F$500). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 349 January 1. The amount that authorized banks were allowed to approve for payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities was increased to F$ 100,000 of the amount due from F$50,000. The amount for refunds on cancelled hotel bookings was also increased to F$100,000 of the amount due (from F$10,000). Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The amount that domestic companies were allowed to invest was increased to F$ 100,000 a company a year from F$50,000. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment January 1. The maximum amount that nonresident-controlled business entities are allowed to issue as a new guarantee was increased to F$10 million from F$5 million of total new liability; for a nonresident individual, the limit was increased to F$500,000 from F$200,000. January 1. Nonbank financial institutions were allowed to invest abroad up to F$l million. The limit on overseas investments for individuals and families was increased to F$20,000 from F$ 10,000, and the limit on expenditures for establishing sales offices or subsidiaries was increased to F$ 100,000 from F$50,000. Controls on liquidation of direct investment January 1. The limit on transfers on liquidation of investments was increased to F$10 million a year from F$5 million a year. Controls on personal capital transactions January L RBF approval is not required for transfers abroad by emigrants of amounts up to F$50,000 and the annual limit on these transfers was set at F$500,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L The limit for lending to a newly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji was raised to F$10 million from F$5 million, and the limit on borrowing by nonresidents from lending institutions and commercial banks was raised to F$500,000 from F$200,000. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L The Fiji National Provident Fund was limited to F$10 million in offshore investments (previously F$5 million). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of April 30, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Finland is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Finnish markka remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and Feb- ruary 28, 2002, both the Finnish markka and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Finland participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1,2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the Finnish markka was set at Fmk 5.94573 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. There are no exchange controls. Import licensing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export licensing relating to international export control regimes is administered by the trade department/foreign trade division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. On April 8, 2002, the Finnish authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Finland maintains exchange restrictions pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions against Iraq and Libya. Finland maintains exchange restrictions against the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia. Pursuant to EU regulations, funds of certain individuals associated with the former government of Yugoslavia are frozen. A UN Security Council resolution on food for oil (Iraq) is implemented. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Resident Accounts 351 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The following products are subject to quantitative import restrictions and require an import license when imported into the EU: agricultural products; certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements with Russia and Ukraine; certain steel products subject to autonomous community quota for Kazakhstan; specific textile products subject to bilateral agreements with third countries, particular third-country textile products subject to autonomous com- munity quotas; and certain Chinese industrial products subject to autonomous community quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Defense. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 Without quotas Export taxes FINLAND Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Acquisition of shares giving at least one-third of the voting rights in a Finnish defense en- terprise to a single foreign owner requires prior confirmation by the Ministry of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of public defense is jeopardized. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences is allowed for nonresidents who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least five years. Controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secon- dary residences by nonresidents in the Aaland Islands. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Prudential regulations that are harmonized with EU directives apply. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 353 Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the markka could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 8. The Finnish authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the euro. Through February 17, 2002, however, the French franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 17, 2002, both the French franc and the euro circulated. On February 18, 2002, the euro be- came the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender France participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the French franc was set at F 6.55957 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. A fixed conver- sion rate of CFPF 1,000 per €8.38 applies to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands. Two groups of African countries are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute fmanciere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Camer- oon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale, issued by the BEAC). The fixed parity is €1 per CFAF 655.957. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc at a fixed parity of €1 per CF 491.968. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase for- eign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, including private persons, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. 354 Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 355 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions On February 5, 2002, the French authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze accounts of listed terrorists and the Taliban pursuant to the relevant EC regula- tions and UN Security Council resolutions. Additionally, prior to the adoption of these regulations, the authorities had issued provisional decrees freezing funds of persons and organizations related to terrorism, as well as imposing a ban on payments in favor of those persons and organizations. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions on payments have been imposed on Iraq; Myanmar; the Taliban; the UNITA movement in Angola; certain indi- viduals associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; Zimbabwe; and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of €7,600 (prior to January 1, 2002, F 50,000) must be declared to customs upon arrival or departure. On imports Foreign currency At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 FRANCE Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that origi- nate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual li- censes. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Cer- tain goods originating in the EU that are of a strategic nature or of national interest (e.g., works of art) are licensed. Some imports from non-EU countries require administrative visas issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry. Imports of products of the ECSC re- quire such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Products covered by the Common Market regulations require import certificates. Duties are collected at the time of entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an anti- dumping levy may be added. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for precious metals, works of art, jewelry, and collections of jewels and antiques, which are subject to a levy. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on shares or other securities of a participating nature issued by non- OECD area residents. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on bonds and other debt securities issued by non-OECD area residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 357 On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on collective investment securities issued by non-OECD area residents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. Direct investments are defined —for non-publicly listed companies—as those in which foreign investors hold together more than one-third of the capital. However, there are no controls on investments in a company whose capital is already more than two-thirds foreign owned. In the case of firms whose shares are listed on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participa- tion but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI) may also take into ac- count any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents, licenses, and commercial contracts. An authorization is required for investments in areas pertaining to public order, public health, and defense. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the MINEFI within 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds have been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD area residents. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Insurance companies in the EU are required to cover their technical reserves with assets expressed in the same currency. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the French franc could be used for payments through February 17, 2002. February 18. The euro became the sole legal tender. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 5. The French authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze accounts of listed terrorists and the Taliban pursuant to the relevant EC regulations and UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Gabon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BE AC and commer- cial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign curren- cies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.5% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget, and Privatization (MEFBP) because of the nature of their activities. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and import- ers can always cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Gabon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002), or the currency of any other Operations Account coun- try. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The government is allowed to hold oil reserve-related deposits in foreign currencies with commercial banks in Gabon, and to use them to settle foreign debt obligations. Exchange regulations of mem- ber countries in the CEMAC are harmonized. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The Directorate of Financial Institutions (DPI) of the MEFBP supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the MEFBP, which has partly dele- gated approval authority to the authorized banks for current payments and to the BEAC for issues related to the external position of the banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the postal administration and authorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency GABON 359 No. No. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the MEFBP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the So- ci&6 gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. Imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CEMAC country to another, but exports of banknotes outside the CEMAC area are prohibited. Residents traveling to areas outside CEMAC are subject to the various limits imposed on foreign exchange allocated for each trip, depending on the nature of the travel. Nonresident travelers may take with them foreign currency or other foreign means of payment equiva- lent to the maximum amount declared upon entry into the CEMAC area. Above this ceiling or in the absence of declaration, nonresidents must provide supporting documents explain- ing the origin of such amounts. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import into one CEMAC country from another, but imports of banknotes from outside the CEMAC area, by both residents and nonresidents, are prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts may be opened, but the accounts of certain corporations require authoriza- tion of the MEFBP. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were ap- plied in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents' authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 GABON Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Quantitative restrictions are maintained on imports of sugar. Except for sugar, imports from all countries are permitted freely and do not require licenses. All imports, except for gold and health- and security-related items, are subject to declaration for statistical purposes. The common duty rates of the CEMAC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for con- sumer goods. Imports of sugar, poultry, cooking oil, and soap are subject to a surcharge. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CEMAC area must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the contract, unless a special waiver is granted by the MEFBP. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within one month of collection. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million that relate to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports are subject to declaration to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Export taxes are levied on manganese (0.5%) and logs (11%). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to bona fide tests in the form of declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MEFBP. For many types of payments, the monitoring function of the MEFBP has been delegated to authorized banks and the Postal Administration. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the un- derlying trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Residents traveling to France or other Operations Account countries may obtain an unlim- ited allocation of French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002). Within the CEMAC area, BEAC banknotes may be exported without limits. Residents traveling to areas outside CEMAC are allowed to take out foreign banknotes and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 361 means of payment up to a limit of CFAF 4 million and CFAF 10 million for tourism and business purposes, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of pensions and family maintenance. Yes. Persons traveling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for medical reasons may obtain an exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 5 million, and a larger amount may be obtained upon submission of supporting documentation. Students or trainees leaving Gabon for the first time or returning to their normal place of study to countries outside the CEMAC area may obtain an exchange allowance equivalent to CFAF 5 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers and a copy of their work contract. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFBP, is limited to the ceilings applicable to tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All proceeds received from residents of other countries in respect of services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital transactions between Gabon and France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely, except for the sale or issuance of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and require the approval of the DPI, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted freely, provided that they are not related to activities that are prohibited by CEMAC regulations. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in amounts exceeding CFAF 10 million in Gabon requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. Operations in connection with the following are exempt from authorization: (1) loans backed by a guaran- tee from the Gabonese government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 GABON Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DPI within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing by residents or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following transactions are exempt from this requirement: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of which the total amount out- standing does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower. However, for the con- tracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DPI within 30 days of the operation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Direct investment is defined as the acquisition of more than 10% of the capital of a company. Investments, including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Gabon, must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments exceeding CFAF 100 million must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvest- ment of undistributed profits. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 363 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian dalasi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Cen- tral Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. During this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate applied to government transactions and customs valuations for the following week. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. The Gambia participates in the WAMA. Yes. No. n.a. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Effective December 31,2001, commercial banks were allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts for their clients, provided that the banks have demonstrated to the CBG that they have well-developed internal risk control systems in place. Held abroad No. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 365 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. Yes. Negative list Imports of certain goods are subject to prior authorization for health and security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duty rates range from zero to 18%. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt from this tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits There are no capital markets or stock exchange markets in The Gambia. These instruments do not exist in The Gambia. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange exposure limits set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis, and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Resident accounts December 31. Commercial banks that satisfy CBG criteria on risk controls were allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts for their clients. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Georgia is the Georgian lari. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating While the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) does not intervene in the market to support the exchange rate, it purchases foreign exchange when this is consistent with its inflation objectives. The official exchange rate for the dollar is determined daily. The official rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and enterprises and other legal entities. The NBG and the major commercial banks participate in the fixing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange (TICEX) for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market This market is largely inoperative. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. The NBG is responsible for issuing a single license to perform banking operations in domestic and foreign currencies. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Georgia has accumulated official arrears to China and Turkmenistan. Yes. A license is required to trade in gold. Yes. Yes. Up to four units of each currency denomination may be taken out without permission. For exports exceeding this limit, NBG authorization is required. Foreign currency There is no restriction on the amounts that may be exported, but exports must be declared. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 GEORGIA On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. There is no restriction on the amounts that may be imported, but imports must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts There are no restrictions on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imported cigarettes are subject to a higher rate of excise tax than domestically produced cigarettes. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are required for imports of weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceu- ticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). A customs duty of 12% is levied on most non-CIS imports, as well as imports of fuels from CIS countries; certain goods are subject to a 5% customs duty, including specific capital goods, medical goods and equipment, and certain raw materials. Items exempted from cus- toms duties include baby food, mazut, oil products, goods for embassies, imported goods in customs warehouses, reexports, some pharmaceutical products, and raw materials and semifinished goods destined for production of exports within certain limits. A customs processing fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not exceeding lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all imports. State import monopoly n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Other Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes GEORGIA 369 Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Yes. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; scrap metal; pine seeds; numismatic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleon- tological, archaeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for the production of medicine. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. A temporary ban on exports of timber expired at the end of 2001. Exports of nonferrous metal are subject to a temporary ban until the end of 2003. Yes. A general customs processing fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not to exceed lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests in the case of all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 GEORGIA Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration re- quirements for monitoring purposes. The issuance, trading, recording, and redemption of government securities are to be regulated. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Under the Foreign Investment Law, the taxation and promotion of investment activities by joint ventures and foreign enterprises are regulated by the current tax legislation. No. No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The reserve requirement is 14%. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Exports and export proceeds December 31. A temporary ban on exports of timber expired. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Germany is the euro. In cash transactions, however, the legal tender was the deutsche mark through December 31, 2001. On January 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender; however, the deutsche mark continued to be accepted for payments through February 28, 2002. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Aus- tria, Belgium, Finland, France, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the deutsche mark was set at DM 1.95583 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at international foreign exchange markets. Germany has no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Effective December 27, 2001, banks and other financial institutions were instructed to freeze all capital transfers and assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. On January 25, 2002, the authorities notified the IMF that a series of measures and provi- sional decrees freezing the accounts of and banning payments in favor of the Taliban, listed terrorists, and persons and organizations related to terrorism are in effect. These measures have been taken in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions and/or EU regulations, restrictions are im- posed on payments and transfers to the UNITA movement in Angola (including its offi- cials and members of their families), Iraq, the Taliban, certain individuals from Myanmar, and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. EU sanctions are maintained against the assets of some 13 persons associated with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Payments arrears No. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 GERMANY Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to the EU's annual global quota. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to the agreement on textiles and clothing and to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU with various supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a voluntary restrictions agreement. Imports of rolled steel products from Kazakhstan are subject to an autonomous EU quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 373 Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Other Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Certain exports (mostly military and dual-use goods) are subject to individual, global, or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are certain provisions for the portfolio of life insurance and pension funds for prudential regulations. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The regulations governing securities apply. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Currency-matching regulations for life insurance, pension funds, and old-age provision investment funds exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 GERMANY Arrangements for payments and receipts December 27. Banks and other financial institutions were instructed to freeze all capital transfers and assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Changes During 2001 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January I. The euro became the sole legal tender; however, the deutsche mark continued to be accepted for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 25. The authorities notified the IMF that a series of measures and provisional de- crees freezing the accounts of and banning payments in favor of the Taliban, listed terror- ists, and persons and organizations related to terrorism were in effect in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian cedi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate is based on the average rates reported by authorized banks in their transactions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. As there is evidence that the authorities are indirectly inter- vening in the foreign exchange market as conditions require, effective from June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Ghana has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the central banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payment agreements must be received in the currency of the importing coun- try (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. The Exchange Control Act prohibits the quotation of prices and the acceptance of payments for goods and services in foreign exchange. However, authorized dealers may conduct their business in foreign exchange. Ghana has agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. There have been delays in the settlement of clearing balances on these agreements. Ghana is a member of WAMA. The BOG records and confirms foreign capital inflows and administers foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and effected by authorized banks without reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 GHANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic transactions in gold must be authorized by the Precious Minerals Marketing Company, and certain domestic sales may be carried out only by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 25% in addition to the VAT. The gold mines export their output in semirefmed form. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to the equivalent of C5,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to $5,000 or its equivalent in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases. Domestic currency Travelers may reimport up to the equivalent of the C5,000 that they were allowed to export. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is not allowed, except for approved purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies upon approval by the BOG. Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staff. It is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain types of capital proceeds) may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including for purchases of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 377 Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit A preshipment inspection is required for all imports. Most imports are effected with confirmed LCs established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum tariff rate is 20% of the c.i.f. value of imports and a special tax of 20% is levied on 366 tariff item categories. Importers without a taxpayer identification number are subject to a 5% withholding income tax on the value of their imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold at market rates upon receipt in the banks. Nontraditional exports are not subject to surrender requirements, while 20% to 40% of gold and 98% of cocoa export proceeds are surrendered to the BOG. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation LCs are required, except for nontraditional exports. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required, except for nontraditional exports. Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. Only cocoa exports are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds and payments to farmers, together with the Cocoa Board's costs if pro- ceeds exceed payments. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Quantitative limits Quantitative limits are applied for commissions. Investment-related payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 Payments for travel Quantitative limits GHANA Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $5,000 in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers or held in foreign exchange- denominated bank accounts in resident banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); in- dividual holdings and total holdings of all nonresidents in any one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, nonresident participation requires the following minimum equity injections to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is a joint venture; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in capital goods in the case of a trading enterprise involved only in the purchasing and selling of goods that is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian and that employs at least 10 Ghanaians. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the MOF. The transfer or repatriation of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents There are no controls on these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy securities requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Current regulations do not allow nonresidents to bring in foreign exchange for the pur- pose of investing in local money market instruments (BOG and government securities). However, nonresidents holding local currencies may invest in these instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply to these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy these instruments requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 379 On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases require prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions, as well as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated with these sales, including those derived from the liquidation of such securities, require BOG approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to buy such securities requires prior approval from the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the consent of the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Currently, a local market in derivatives and other instruments does not exist. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to effect such transactions requires BOG approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits BOG approval is required for these credits, which must be channeled through the banking system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents These credits require BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the GIPC Act, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquida- tion, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The minimum qualifying amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a joint- venture enterprise with a Ghanaian partner; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in goods by way of equity capital when the enterprise is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian, employs at least 10 Ghanaians, and is involved in the purchasing and selling of goods. The GIPC Act stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation (e.g., through arbitration by the International Center for Settle- ment of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law). Yes. Yes. There are controls on all personal capital movements, except for the transfer of assets into the country by immigrants. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 GHANA To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad BOG notification is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOG notification is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations These purchases are allowed within reasonable or acceptable limits. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Based on the volume of foreign exchange transactions of banks. This is subject to periodic review. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Ghana was reclassifled to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 22, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency Effective January 1,2001, Greece adopted the euro. On January 1,2002, euro banknotes and coins were introduced. Through February 28,2002, the Greek drachma and the euro were used in cash transactions. The euro became the sole legal tender on March 1, 2002. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender On January 1, 2001, Greece joined the EMU, a currency union, with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1,2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the drachma was set at Dr 340.75 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. As a result of Greece joining the EMU, the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. No. No. Forward coverage is provided by domestic credit institutions to their customers in all major currencies at freely negotiable market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in any currency. Effective January 1,2001, there are no controls on either the use of domestic currency or on the use of foreign currency among residents. No. There are no exchange controls. Resident credit institutions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions with nonresidents and are obliged to provide to the Bank of Greece (BOG) all the information necessary to com- pile the balance of payments. On April 11, 2002, the authorities notified the IMF that the accounts and assets of any kind and a ban on payments and capital transfers related to the Taliban and persons de- signated as terrorists had been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 GREECE Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Natural and juridical persons, residents, and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell gold coins and/or bars that are not used for commercial and industrial purposes. This gold may be purchased by and sold to the BOG and/or any other credit institution operating in Greece authorized to carry out transactions in foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents are required to declare upon entering and/or leaving Greece amounts of gold exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 and €2,000, respectively, or submit a copy of the document certifying that the relevant latter transaction was carried out by a resident credit institution. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents leaving Greece should declare amounts of banknotes in domestic and/or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €2,000. In this declaration, they must also provide the purpose of the export of banknotes; in addition, residents of Greece must provide their fiscal number. Yes. Yes. For statistical purposes, residents and nonresidents entering Greece should declare the amount of imported banknotes in domestic and foreign currency if the total amount ex- ceeds the equivalent of €10,000. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effective January 1, 2001, all types of accounts in any currency, held domestically or abroad, are allowed. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are permitted to convert deposits in domestic currency held with resident credit institutions into foreign currency deposits. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures GREECE 383 No. Import licenses are required for some specific products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items such as medi- cines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no limits for these transactions. However, for transactions involving amounts equal to or exceeding the equivalent of €10,000, supporting documentation must be presented, mainly for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Existing legislation on inward direct investment and establishment imposes certain controls on the purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature in the broadcasting and maritime sectors by non-EU residents. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 GREECE Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of national security. There are also controls on the acquisition of mining rights and participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or maritime and air transport. No. No. No. No. There are certain provisions that differ according to the type of institutional investor. The same regulations apply as above. The same regulations apply as above. Regulations applied to EU countries are in effect. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Changes During 2001 January 1. Greece joined the EMU. The conversion rate between the euro and the drachma was set at Dr 340.75 per €1. January 1. The exchange rate arrangement of Greece was reclassified to the category ex- change arrangement with no separate legal tender from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. January 1. All controls on the use of domestic or foreign currency among residents were eliminated. January 1. All types of accounts in any currency, held domestically or abroad, were allowed. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes and coins were introduced. Both the euro and the Greek drachma could be used for payments through February 28,2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. April 11. The authorities notified the IMF that the accounts and assets of any kind and a ban on payments and capital transfers related to the Taliban and persons designated as terrorists had been frozen in accordance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 24,1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at legal tender ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Set- tlements with residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents n.r. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Grenada is a member of the CARICOM. Grenada participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. The MOF dele- gates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve some import payments and cer- tain other outward payments. The Trade Division of the MOF administers trade control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions on trade relations with Libya. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The MOF issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 GRENADA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada, and both residents and nonresidents must receive permis- sion from the MOF to take out, in any one transaction, sums in excess of EC$250,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holders of these accounts must submit regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Domestic currency accounts These accounts must be credited with funds from an external source. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods and services in excess of the limits of ADs require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Prohibited goods include whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quantitative restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, in- cluding arms and ammunition, carbonated beverages, flour, industrial gas, paints, and miscellaneous items associated with furniture and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, industrial gas, furniture, and solar water heaters. Grenada applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. All imports from non- CARICOM countries are subject to the following CET rates: 40% for most agricultural imports; and 5% to 20% for most other items. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge, except for some manufatured products, for which a rate of 2.5% applies. Imports not granted exemptions from customs duties are subject to a general consumption ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 387 tax (GCT) regime with three broad rates of 10% and 15% for CARICOM countries, and 25% for all other countries. There are three additional GCT rates of 50%, 55%, and 75% that are applied to specific items such as new cars, foreign used cars, and cigarettes, re- spectively. There are environmental levies of ECS0.25 on each imported glass bottle and of EC$0.50 on each plastic bottle containing liquid (including carbonated and noncarbonated beverages and syrups). The levy also consists of a 1% charge on the c.i.f. value of white goods (durable consumer items) and a 2% charge on the c.i.f. value of imported used cars under five years and 30% charge on cars five years or older. Imports of capital equipment are subject to a minimum charge of 5% under the GET and 25% under the consumption tax. However, most capital imports are granted exemptions from import duties, and all capital imports by domestic commodity boards involved in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, or nutmeg are exempt from import duties, provided that the imports are used for improvements in these industries. State import monopoly The Marketing and National Importing Board is the sole authorized importer of bulk purchases of fu ll cream milk, white and brown sugar, and brown rice. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Proceeds must be surrendered to ADs (commercial banks). n.a. n.a. Licenses are required for traditional export crops (i.e., bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, and minor spices). Licenses are also required to export fresh fruits, fish, plants required for the estab- lishment or expansion of any agricultural industry in Grenada, gas cylinders, corals, all minerals, and live sheep. Certain exports, such as birds, live goats, fauna, flora, and items considered part of Grenada's national heritage, are prohibited. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted but require the approval of the MOF whenever a single transaction exceeds EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if all related liabilities have been discharged and the investment was registered with the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 Personal payments Prior approval GRENADA For studies abroad, MOF approval is required, and permission is usually granted on presen- tation of documentation of registration and the costs of tuition and other expenses. For transfer of pensions, approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. For family main- tenance and alimony payments, approval is granted upon proof of established liabilities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval There are no restrictions on the payment of subscriptions and membership fees. MOF approval is required and is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payment for consulting services and legal fees. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, subject to withholding on income tax, where applicable. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Any single outward capital transaction in excess of EC$250,000 requires exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 389 Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not ordinarily permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Cabinet approval via the Industrial Development Corporation is normally required for non- residents to operate manufacturing enterprises and hotels, and an alien landholding license is required for nonresidents to hold both financial and physical property. Nonresident labor services are generally permitted with work permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Labor. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the MOF. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An alien landholding license must be issued by the Office of the Prime Minister. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Any borrowing abroad by nationals to finance their domestic operations generally requires the approval of the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ADs may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance ap- proved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF but is not ordinarily permitted. No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 GRENADA Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan quetzal. Effective May 1, 2001, the use of foreign currency in Guatemala is allowed. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market in which the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) intervenes to moderate undue fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector, and to service its own external debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market during the day before the previous business day. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with special payments agreements. The issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other financial institutions requires prior approval by the Monetary Board. Effective May 1, 2001, the use of foreign currency is allowed. There are payment arrangements under the Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Recip- rocal Agreement and the Panama-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Honduras functioned until 1995. Guatemala is a member of the CACM. Yes. The BOG administers the exchange regime. Foreign exchange transactions in the public sector are carried out exclusively through the BOG; those in the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 GUATEMALA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. How- ever, imports of some agricultural commodities and animal products are subject to tariffs. At present, those products are incorporated in and regulated within the WTO charter as being very sensitive for the Guatemalan economy. The list includes goods considered dangerous to society, such as weapons, certain chemi- cals, and drugs. Weapons may be imported only with the approval of the appropriate department. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Guatemala applies the GET for processed goods from CACM countries, which ranges from zero to 15%, with virtually all other intra-CACM trade exempt from tariffs. The maximum tariff rates on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods not produced in Central America are 5% and 10%, respectively, while the tariff rate on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods produced in Central America is zero. Some processed products, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and alcohol, which are traded with CACM countries, are subject to tariffs ranging from 1% to 5%. Guatemala's tariff structure continues to exempt certain processed products from the maximum GET rate of 15%. The tariff rates for most footwear, textiles, and tires are 27%, 20%, and 17%, respec- tively. In addition, certain agricultural products enjoy safeguard provisions and are subject to tariff rate quotas under WTO rules, which also allow tariffs well above the maximum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 393 rate for imports in excess of their quota. Sugar is subject to a quota of 5,000 metric tons a year, with tariffs of zero within quota and 20% in excess of quota. Other examples are ap- ples (12% and 25%); corn (5% and 35%); and wheat flour (4% and 10%). Rice is subject to a quota of 43,409 metric tons a year, with a tariff of 14.6% within quota and 29.2% in excess of quota. These quotas are adjusted yearly, following discussions between the private sector and the government. Effective March 15, 2001, a trade agreement between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico came into force, giving certain tariff benefits to the participants. Effective October 15,2001, a trade agreement between the Dominican Republic and Central American countries came into force. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Effective May 1, 2001, the requirement that export proceeds be sold to an authorized participant in the interbank market other than the BOG was eliminated. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exports of sugar, apparel, and textiles to the United States are subject to quotas. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Effective May 1, 2001, surrender requirements were eliminated. Previously, proceeds for invisibles had to be sold to an authorized financial institution at the market rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents The issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other financial institutions requires prior approval of the Monetary Board. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 GUATEMALA Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special legislation. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No. No. No. On March 1, 2002, the new Law on Banks and Financial Groups came into force. Effective March 1, 2002, these transactions are allowed freely. Previously, borrowing abroad by banks and credit institutions required Monetary Board approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Effective May 1, 2001, controls on these transactions were eliminated. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange The purchase of privately issued securities requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Effective May 1,2001, the differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange was eliminated. Effective May 1,2001, the differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents was eliminated. Effective February 20,2002, the difference between net total assets and total liabilities, future payments, and contingencies in foreign currency may not exceed 60% of paid-up capital and reserves. If the difference is negative, it may not exceed 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement May 1. The domestic use of any foreign currency was allowed. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds May L The use of any foreign currency was allowed, although the issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other financial institutions requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. March 15. A trade agreement between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico came into force. October 15. A trade agreement between the Dominican Republic and Central American countries came into force. May L The requirement that export proceeds be sold to an authorized participant in the interbank market other than the BOG was eliminated. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers May L The surrender requirements were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors GUATEMALA 395 May 1. Controls on lending locally in foreign exchange were eliminated. May 1. The differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange was eliminated. May 1. The differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents was eliminated. Changes During 2002 March 1. Banks and credit institutions were allowed to borrow abroad freely. March L The new Law on Banks and Financial Groups came into force. February 20. The Monetary Board resolution specifying the currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition came into force. The difference between net total assets and total liabilities, future payments, and contingencies in foreign currency cannot exceed 60% of paid-up capital and reserves. If the difference is negative, it cannot exceed 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Guinea is the Guinean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate of the Guinean franc is determined weekly in the auction market for foreign exchange. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to buy and sell foreign exchange at any rate. However, as there is evidence that the authorities are indirectly intervening in the foreign exchange market as conditions require, effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Guinea has been reclassified to the cate- gory managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agree- ments. Settlements with countries other than members of the WAMA are made in desig- nated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (CBRG). Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Romania, and Russia. Settlements with the BCEAO and with The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are generally carried out through the WAMA. Under the Exchange Control Law of March 2000, exchange control authority is vested in the CBRG, which has delegated to the commercial banks authority to (1) sign import de- scriptions and descriptive import applications; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding airline tickets for travel abroad; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, may be effected by the commercial banks. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Yes. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 397 Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The CBRG purchases gold only in Guinean francs at international prices. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restrictions. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the CBRG. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. Exportation of foreign currency is made through the CBRG. Importation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permitted, subject to declara- tion on entry. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks or exchange them for Guinean francs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents are free to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Exporters may hold all of their earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval of the CBRG is required for juridical persons and a simple notification to the CBRG is required for natural persons. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of their origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commer- cial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. Yes. Minimum financing requirements The minimum financing requirement is $2,000 or its equivalent. Advance payment requirements Advance payments may be made on the basis of commercial contracts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 GUINEA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on imports financed from importers' own resources or through the foreign exchange market. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of armaments, ammunitions, and narcotics are prohibited. All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, a fiscal import duty (DFE) of 8%, and a customs duty (DDE) of 7%, with the following exceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a DFE of 6% and a DDE of 2%; and food industry imports, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to a DFE of 8% and a DDE of 2%. In addition, a surtax of 20% to 70% is imposed on all luxury goods, nonalcoholic bever- ages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports by the three semipublic enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Private traders may retain all of their proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold ex- porters and vendors may retain all of their proceeds. Semipublic enterprises may retain abroad all of their proceeds and may use them for import payments, operating expenses, and external debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description aimed at preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption and at identifying capital outflows. Mining sector exports are exempt from this requirement. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds require special authorization from designated agencies. These are applicable to agricultural exports. There are quotas on the export of wild animals and articles of historic or ethnographic interest. Exports of diamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. Other export taxes Mining and petroleum products are subject to other export taxes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 399 Trade-related payments There are no controls on payments of unloading and storage expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for government operations. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is required for payments of pensions. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide rates for payments of pensions. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. Foreign workers may transfer up to 50% of their taxable income. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are currently no transactions involving bonds. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. No. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit and guarantee operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 GUINEA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The authorization of the CBRG is required. Inward direct investment There are no limits on amounts that nonresidents may invest in Guinea, and all Guinean and foreign nationals may hold controlling interests in Guinean enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions The authorization of the CBRG is required for all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are controls on all these operations. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The only form of lending to nonresidents that is allowed is overdraft protection on domestic currency checking accounts. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Guinea was reclassified to the category man- aged floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independ- ently floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax A bank commission of 0.25% is levied on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. It must be surrendered to the treasury in its entirety. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Guinea-Bissau is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros (from January 1, 2002; French francs through December 31, 2001), or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The ap- proval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward ex- change cover, and the opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, which is also authorized to collect—either directly or through banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, or judicial agents—any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Settlements with a country outside the Operations Account area must be formally approved by the customs administration. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 GUINEA-BISSAU Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are suspended. In addition, ship- ments of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, and with the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. The holding of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations prohibit any transfer with the aim of increasing a resident's foreign holdings, unless approved by the MOF. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchases by nonresidents of any foreign currency on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 403 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports, regardless of whether they involve the use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, primarily for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued auto- matically after verification of invoice prices for goods to be taxed. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates; zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which payments fall due. The authorized intermediary bank must then transfer them to the BCEAO via the bank of issue. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a prior export license. Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases and are for statistical purposes. There are no products of which the exportation is reserved solely for the public sector. Yes. Cashew nut exports are subject to a special tax of 10%, except those to ECOWAS coun- tries. Other agricultural exports are subject to a rural property tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Information is not available for payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Returning resident travelers must surrender unspent foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000. Information is not available for payment of pensions, family maintenance, or alimony. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 GUINEA-BISSAU Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all incomes earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of these investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. The liquidation of foreign investment must be reported to the MOF, and the reinvestment of proceeds is subject to prior authorization. If authorization is not given for the reinvestment, the proceeds in for- eign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Capital transfers to the WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, except for direct in- vestments, which are subject to prior declaration. Certain borrowing operations are also subject to prior authorization. Prior authorization is waived with respect to (1) borrowing guaranteed by the government of Guinea-Bissau and (2) foreign shares that are similar to securities, the issuance, public announcement, or sale of which has already been approved in Guinea-Bissau. There is also special surveillance of calls for subscribed funds for pur- poses of deposit with foreign nationals, corporations, or institutions, as well as of any pub- lic announcement for the purpose of investing funds abroad or subscribing to foreign con- struction or real estate operations. These special provisions also apply to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. Yes. Yes. Residents are free to sell the shares of resident companies abroad. If the effect of such op- erations is to place resident Guinea-Bissau companies under foreign control, the foreign investors must make a prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These investments are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments, except for commodity and security call and put options, which residents may freely purchase abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 405 Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the due date of the payment does not exceed 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. There are no controls on credits in connection with services rendered. In these cases, no deadline is set for the date on which payment falls due. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment If these transactions take place between a direct investment company established in Guinea-Bissau and its parent company situated abroad, they are considered direct investments and are subject to prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. The Investment Code provides for incentives to investments and protection against the nationalization and expropriation of assets. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents require notification to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions require notification to the MOF. There are no controls if these operations involve commercial credits. Other loans granted to nonresidents are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, after the approval of the BCEAO. Lending locally in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 GUINEA-BISSAU Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Banking regulations make no distinction between resident, nonresident, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guyana is the Guyana dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is determined in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana (BOG) conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio exchange rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. In light of evidence that the authorities are intervening in the foreign exchange market as con- ditions require, Guyana's exchange rate arrangement was reclassified, effective June 30, 2001, to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. No. No. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in dor- mant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been given for deposits made after end-March 1989. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.a. Operative There are arrangements with all CARICOM central banks. Regional arrangements Guyana is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Restrictions are applied in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1333, 1368, and 1373. Arrears, which are due to ongoing negotiations under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, exist with Argentina, China, India, Kuwait, Libya, Russia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Arrears exist on certain dormant accounts holding domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 GUYANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form except for numismatic purposes and jewelry, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits endorsed by the Guyana Gold Board. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers entering or leaving Guyana must declare foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are approved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require im- ported inputs for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Yes. No. The balances of these accounts may be converted at the prevailing cambio exchange rate. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by commercial banks without the prior approval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other countries temporarily residing in Guyana, nonresidents attached to diplomatic missions or interna- tional organizations, branches of companies incorporated outside Guyana, and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars and may be credited with noncash instruments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the banking sys- tem. These accounts may also be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other external ac- counts, for withdrawals by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports The BOG prepares a statement of convertible currency receipts and payments to monitor projected flows. Import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction. Most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Certain payments for official imports effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG require the Bank's prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 409 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Requirements are related mainly to petroleum products. Other Documents required include invoices, bills of lading, and certificates of origin. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum pro- ducts and some 20 items affecting national security, public health and safety, and the environment. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items from all non- CARICOM sources are restricted, subject to import-licensing controls. The fourth phase of the CARICOM GET is applied to all imports from sources outside the market. Tariffs range from 5% to 20%, except for agricultural products, for which the tariff is 40%. Intra-CARICOM trade is free of import duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of gold and wildlife. Gold exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferential markets and for wildlife exports. There are levies on exports of rice and sugar. An export duty is applied for exports of timber, bauxite, sugar, live birds, and aquarium fish. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on credit operations All types of credit operations are controlled. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending to nonresident enterprises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 GUYANA Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending to nonresident enterprises. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are being monitored. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate of Guyana was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian gourde. The dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate is determined in the exchange market. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH)—the central bank—operates a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates of the dollar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by banks, with money changers following this market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Haiti's debt to Italy was rescheduled for 2028. Haiti has been a member of the CARICOM since July 1999. However, Haiti's actual accession to the CARICOM will take place once parliament ratifies the treaty. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official No. n.a. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. The BRH has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) and the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Affairs, as well as an endorsement from the MCI, before customs clearance. How- ever, commercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 HAITI Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovernmental organi- zations. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. There are four standard tariff rates—zero, 5%, 10%, and 15%—and the maximum tariff for most non-CARICOM items is 20%. Several goods have special tariff rates—gasoline, 57.8%; and cement, rice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic turnover tax is charged on the c.i.f. value plus import duties. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a 4% verification fee. As Haiti is a member of the CARICOM, numerous exemptions and suspensions have been negotiated to avoid tariff increases under the GET. These suspensions and extensions are valid until 2005. The suspension mechanism can also be used in case of supply shortages and local price increases for certain goods within the common market. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. n.a. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 413 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments or on the transfer of pensions, family maintenance, and alimony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Investments require prior government approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange n.a. n.a. n.a. n.r. n.r. n.r. Lending may not exceed 50% of deposits in foreign exchange, Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange n.r. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits A reserve requirement ratio of 31% applies to both gourde and dollar-denominated depos- its. However, foreign liabilities are subject to a reserve requirement of 70% in foreign cur- rency and 30% in domestic currency. n.r. n.r. Lending may not exceed 50% of deposits in foreign exchange. On resident assets and liabilities An open foreign exchange position limit of 8% applies to capital and reserves. On nonresident assets and liabilities An open foreign exchange position limit of 8% applies to capital and reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 HAITI Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1950. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the lempira is determined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are required to sell all their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private individuals) bid at a price that may not differ from the base price set by the authorities by more than 7% in either direction. The base exchange rate is adjusted every five auctions according to changes in the differential between domestic and international inflation and in the exchange rates of Honduras' trading partners with respect to the dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of foreign exchange from its agents. The minimum amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Individuals wishing to purchase for- eign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between the equivalents of $5,000 and $300,000. Foreign exchange agents may make purchases for their own ac- count to satisfy private demands of less than the equivalent of $5,000. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased for this purpose is the equivalent of $50,000 for commercial banks and $15,000 for foreign exchange houses. Foreign ex- change agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the public of less than the equivalent of $5,000 and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Payment obligations of any nature made in Honduras must be settled in lempiras, except for those contracted and documented in a foreign currency. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Honduras and Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala functioned until 1995. Regional arrangements Honduras is a member of the CACM. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies or in dollars. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. No. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 HONDURAS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to hold these deposits in one of the following: (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults, (2) deposits in the CBH, (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (4) investments in high-liquidity foreign instruments, or (5) export and import financing instruments. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Tariffs are 1% for capital goods, 5% for raw materials and intermediate goods, and up to 15% for finished goods. Effective April 1, 2002, tariffs on most capital goods were abolished. Some imports from non-CACM countries have a different status and, in gen- eral, higher tariffs. All CACM countries have agreed to base the different treatment of these items on temporary external conditions. There are duty-free industrial-processing zones, and, effective January 24,2002, agricultural export zones that benefit from tariff exemptions. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes HONDURAS 417 All export earnings, except those from trade with other Central American countries, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses within a period of 20 to 85 days. Commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell all purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30% of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized external obligations. No. Yes. Yes. No licenses are required, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are required to fill out a form for statistical purposes. There are no limits on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms are permitted, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. No. The approval of congress is required for all public-sector foreign borrowing. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 HONDURAS Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments are permitted in all sectors without control, with the exception of defense- related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secretary of Industry and Trade. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are location and size limitations. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The limit of indebtedness is three times the capital and reserves of the bank or institution. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required. Financial institutions may lend 50% of their foreign exchange deposits locally in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Banks, nonbank financial institutions, and savings and loan associations are subject to a nonremunerated reserve requirement of 12% on all deposits denominated in both domestic and foreign currency. Financial institutions are required to hold investments that are remunerated at a market- based interest rate and are equivalent to 3% of deposits in domestic currency. Effective May 19, 2001, the ratio for savings and loan associations was reduced to 3% from 5% and that for commercial banks was reduced to 5% from 7%; effective September 8, 2001, the ratio for commercial banks was further reduced to 3%. Forty percent of funds from foreign exchange deposits may be used as credit for export- related activities, and 10% may be used for any other purpose. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions May 19. The rate at which mandatory investments for deposits in domestic currency are remunerated was reduced to 5% from 7% for commercial banks. May 19. The rate of interest at which savings and loan associations are required to hold deposits in domestic currency at the CBH was reduced to 3% from 5%. September 8. The rate at which mandatory investments for deposits in domestic currency are remunerated was reduced to 3% from 5% for commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 419 Imports and import payments January 24. Certain agricultural export zones were exempted from tariffs. April 1. Tariffs on most capital goods were abolished. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian forint. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Between January 1, 2001, and October 1, 2001, the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) ad- justed the central parity of the forint by a preannounced rate of crawl against the euro. Ef- fective April 1,2001, the monthly rate of depreciation was adjusted to 0.2% from 0.3%. Effective May 4,2001, the width of the band within which the forint trades against the euro was widened to ±15% around the central parity from ±2.25%. Effective October 1, 2001, the crawling peg was abolished and the central parity of the Hungarian forint was fixed to the euro at Ft 276.1 p e r € l. Thus, the exchange arrangement of Hungary was re- classified to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category crawling band. No. No. Prior to June 16, 2001, only resident commercial banks could engage in forward transac- tions at exchange rates that were negotiated freely between the banks and their customers. As of that date, all banks may engage in such transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. There are agreements with Brazil and Ecuador, under which outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. There are agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Russia, and Vietnam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods. Hungary is a member of the CEFTA. On December 31,2001, parliament passed an act lifting all exchange restrictions. Prior to that date, authority for enforcing foreign exchange regulations was vested in the NBH. In accordance with UN sanctions Hungary maintains payment restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 421 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Effective June 16, 2001, only a declaration is required to import or export more than Ft 1 million or its equivalent in foreign currency. Previously, residents and nonresidents were allowed to import or export up to Ft 350,000 a person a trip without authorization. Likewise, exports over the equivalent of Ft 100,000 in foreign currency a person a trip required authorization. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident natural persons may freely maintain convertible currency accounts at authorized commercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts with funds originating from specific sources, such as export proceeds, foreign borrowing, capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint-venture companies, as well as proceeds from direct and portfolio investments abroad; inheritances; donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches, and social organizations; and budgetary institutions. Effective June 16, 2001, approval is not required. Previously, approval was required to maintain accounts not mentioned above. Effective June 16, 2001, restrictions on the holding of foreign exchange accounts abroad were lifted and NBH approval was no longer required. Previously, residents who worked or stayed abroad, maintained a resident office, or were main contractors could hold without permission foreign exchange accounts abroad for the purpose of an initial capital deposit account in connection with making outward foreign direct investment or for credit accounts and margin accounts in connection with commodity stock trading. Resident fund managers were likewise authorized to hold accounts abroad in which to keep the securities and their earnings abroad in order to technically facilitate investment operations. In all other cases, permission to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad was required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Effective June 16, 2001, NBH approval is not required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Effective June 16, 2001, conversion is free of restrictions for all items. Prior to that date, conversion was free only for liberalized items and in authorized cases. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Effective June 16, 2001, convertible forint accounts may be credited freely, and their bal- ances converted into foreign currencies and transferred freely. Previously, convertible forint accounts could be credited only with legally acquired forint and their balance could be converted into foreign currency. Proceeds from the conversion of convertible currency or forint acquired from nonliberalized or unauthorized transactions had to be placed in a nonconvertible, non-interest bearing forint account. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 HUNGARY Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for a number of products, including imports destined for the settle- ment of outstanding balances in transferable or clearing rubles. About 95% of Hungarian imports are fully liberalized. Negative list Yes. Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are needed for products falling under the global quota on consumer goods. Yes. Goods for personal use brought in by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a gen- eral import duty of 15%, based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 30,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs duty, goods for personal use up to a value equivalent to 40% of their earnings. Goods imported into Hungary are subject to customs duties in accordance with established and published tariffs. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Effective June 16, 2001, the requirement that export proceeds in convertible currencies be repatriated upon receipt of the foreign exchange was abolished. Previously, certain ex- emptions were granted as stipulated in the law or after specific approval by the NBH. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, the exporters were required to make a best effort to exchange them into convertible currency and repatriate the convertible currency. No. No. Exports of items included in the negative list require a license. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective June 16, 2001, the requirement that proceeds from invisible transactions be subject to the same requirement as export proceeds was eliminated. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Effective June 16, 2001, all remaining foreign exchange controls on capital transactions were lifted. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 423 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions in OECD central government bonds and bonds and shares of OECD-based enterprises (in the case of both types of bonds, those with an original maturity of one year or longer) and the sale of shares of parent companies to the employees of their subsidiary companies may be conducted freely. Effective June 16, 2001, all proceeds associated with authorized transactions may be freely converted and transferred abroad by nonresidents. Prior to this date, foreign exchange authorization was required for transactions in other instruments and the authorization was granted liberally, on a case-by-case basis, after a request and its accompanying documents had been submitted. Prior to June 16, 2001, the regulations governing the sale or issue locally by nonresidents applied, and transactions had to take place through a resident brokerage company. As of that date, funds required for transactions may be freely converted and transferred abroad by residents. Effective June 16, 2001, permission of the NBH is not required if the original maturity of bonds or other debt securities is less than 365 days. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior to June 16, 2001, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participat- ing nature applied. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Effective June 16, 2001, funds required for transactions may be freely converted and trans- ferred abroad by residents. Prior to that date, the regulations governing the sale or issue locally by nonresidents applied, and the transactions had to take place through a resident brokerage company. Effective June 16, 2001, permission of the NBH is not required for public or private offering of bonds and other debt securities issued by residents to foreigners or for listing such securities at a recognized securities market in a foreign country if the original maturity of such securities is less than 365 days. Prior to that date, under the Securities Act, such transactions were also subject to the approval of the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority. Effective June 16, 2001, these transactions do not require foreign exchange authorization and may be conducted freely. Prior to that date, authorization was granted on a case-by- case basis, after a request and its accompanying documents had been submitted. Proceeds associated with these transactions may be freely converted and transferred abroad. Transactions in closed-end funds may be conducted freely. Effective June 16, 2001, trans- actions in open-end funds do not require authorization. Prior to June 16, 2001, the regulations governing transactions in money market instruments applied, except that foreign collective investment securities were admitted to the domestic market if (1) the fund manager was registered in an OECD member state; (2) the fund's investment policy focused on instruments that were already liberalized and freely available for residents of Hungary; and (3) the initial offering of the securities had taken place in an OECD member country. After that date, these regulations no longer applied. Prior to June 16, 2001, the regulations governing transactions in money market instruments applied, except that residents could freely purchase abroad collective investment securities for closed-end funds or ones for which approval was granted through resident investment companies. As of that date, these regulations no longer applied. Transactions in closed-end funds may be conducted freely, and, as of June 16, 2001, those in open-end funds no longer require authorization. Effective June 16, 2001, these transactions no longer require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 HUNGARY Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, nonresidents are permitted to trade freely in futures contracts for individual stocks or the Budapest stock index (BUX) on the Budapest Stock Exchange. Prior to that date, this was allowed only exceptionally. Effective June 16, 2001, nonresidents are permitted to trade freely in futures contracts for individual stocks or the BUX on the Budapest Stock Exchange. Prior to that date, this was allowed only exceptionally. Purchase abroad by residents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Effective June 16,2001, these transactions have been liberalized and may be carried out freely (previously, residents were allowed to grant to a direct enterprise abroad only credit that was acquired in accordance with Hungarian foreign exchange rules). The maturity of such a credit should have exceeded five years; otherwise, a foreign exchange authorization was required. Residents were allowed to grant foreign exchange credits with a maturity of more than one year to nonresidents of OECD member countries. With the exception of credits extended between close relatives, a foreign exchange authority authorization was required, which was granted liberally in the case of long- and medium-term credits and granted exceptionally in the case of short-term credits. Effective June 16, 2001, medium- and long-term financial credits in foreign exchange are allowed for residents. Prior to that date, short-term borrowing was allowed with an authori- zation from the NBH. The borrowing could be effected in the form of a bank transfer to an authorized credit institution in Hungary. Repayment was to be made proportionally, i.e., the first year's installments could not be higher than the average installment over the entire period. Effective June 16, 2001, these transactions were liberalized and may be carried out freely. Prior to that date, borrowing in domestic currency by organizations and private individuals was subject to a foreign exchange authority permit and could be effected only from a con- vertible forint account held by a nonresident. Prior to June 16,2001, when these limitations and controls were lifted, these transactions were allowed if they were related to liberalized transactions. In all other cases, authoriza- tion was needed, which was granted liberally on a case-by-case basis. By residents to nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. To residents from nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Effective June 16, 2001, controls on these investments were lifted. Prior to that date, equity participation in a nonresident enterprise was considered as foreign direct investment and could be undertaken freely if the participation in the share or equity capital or the value of assets of the foreign enterprise was more than 10%. The following preconditions were also to be met: (1) the laws of the country of incorporation had to allow the transfer to Hungary of profits and capital in convertible foreign exchange; (2) the resident's liability was not to exceed (except in the case of a branch) its share in the enterprise; (3) the resident should have had no customs duty, tax, pension, health insurance, or social security contribution liability outstanding; (4) the resident was not to be in bankruptcy proceedings or under liquidation, and no such action was to have been initiated against him or her in the year of application or the previous two calendar years; (5) during the period stipulated above, there was to be no negative decision against the investor made by the foreign exchange authority; and (6) during the same period, no senior employee of the applicant was to have been a senior member of the supervisory committee of an enterprise against which the foreign exchange authority had made a negative decision. If the planned investment did not meet any of these listed criteria, the applications were automatically subject to authorization procedure. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 425 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior to June 16, 2001, the acquisition of real estate had to be reported within eight days. As of that date, this requirement was lifted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, approval of local municipal authorities is not required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. Prior to that date, only credits extended between close relatives could be carried out freely; otherwise, the regula- tions governing financial credits applied. To residents from nonresidents Effective June 16, 2001, there are no controls on these transactions. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective June 16, 2001, all controls on these transactions were removed. Prior to that date, residents could donate convertible foreign exchange or currency to a nonresident only if authorized by the NBH. A resident could give a gift of pecuniary value to a nonresident, but, until June 16, 2001, this gift could not be (1) the resident's share or participation in foreign direct investment; (2) the right of ownership in respect of real estate abroad or in Hungary; and (3) securities, money market instruments, and transferable instruments, which nonresidents could acquire only with a foreign exchange license. (The above- mentioned operations were liberalized only in the case of close relatives.) In addition, residents could establish an endowment abroad or join a foreign endowment only with authorization. This provision also applied to an assumption of obligation serving the public interest. Effective June 16, 2001, controls on these transactions have been eliminated. Prior to that date, on first leaving Hungary for any foreign country, a private individual who was enti- tled to emigrate could take the following out of the country without the permission of the foreign exchange authority: (1) his or her pecuniary holdings; (2) the currency or foreign exchange originating from the conversion of the domestic payment instruments received for the sale of his or her domestic real estate; and (3) the foreign exchange or currency originating from the conversion of domestic payment instrument(s) deposited with a domestic credit institution in a registered deposit. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Financial institutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed within the following rules: (1) a bank may not have an aggregate lend- ing with an individual borrower of more than 25% of its adjusted capital; and (2) country risk rules prescribe the placement of specific reserves against possible losses on credits extended to problem countries, the list of which is based on the assessment of the NBH and published by the MOF. Until June 16, 2001, when this was lifted, a third requirement stipulated that the total out- standing lending to nonresidents was not to exceed 50% of the total amount of liabilities in foreign exchange less the own capital of the bank in foreign exchange or the amount stipu- lated in a foreign exchange authority license. Effective January 1, 2000, medium- and long- term lending to nonresidents from OECD member countries may be effected freely. Until June 16, 2001, when this control was lifted, lending to other nonresidents was subject to case-by-case authorization, which was granted liberally. In the case of purchase of short- term securities with an original maturity of less than one year, their aggregate amount was not to exceed 50% of the total amount of liabilities in foreign exchange less the own capital of the bank in foreign exchange. In that figure, short-term lending was also to be included. In-the case of purchase of medium- and long-term securities, the same rules applied as for residents. Short-term lending locally to nonresidents was allowed within the framework stipulated above. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 HUNGARY Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Effective June 16, 2001, the purchase and issue of locally issued foreign exchange-denom- inated securities no longer require a permit from the NBH. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Effective July 1, 2001, the interest paid on reserves generated for foreign currency liabili- ties was made equal to that on reserves generated for forint liabilities. Previously, it was 0.5 of a percentage point higher. Effective June 16, 2001, overdraft facilities are allowed in foreign exchange on resident deposit accounts. Effective July 1, 2001, 100% of commercial bank liabilities denominated in foreign cur- rency with maturity of less than two years were made subject to the same 6% reserve requirement as those denominated in domestic currency. Liabilities with a maturity of more than two years are exempt from reserve requirements. Reserve requirements are remunerated at a rate of interest of 4.25%. Prior to July 1, 2001, only 50% of commercial bank foreign liabilities denominated in foreign currency with a maturity of less than one year were subject to reserve requirements. Assets from certain transactions could only be placed in nonremunerated nonconvertible forint accounts. This limitation was lifted on June 16, 2001. Credit raised by nonresidents in forint could be placed only in nonconvertible forint accounts. This limitation was lifted on June 16, 2001. The gross aggregate position is limited to 30% of the bank's adjusted capital. Banks should adhere to the limit on a daily basis, which is applied equally to resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. Assets constituting the mathematical reserves of an insurer may only be invested in assets issued in Hungary and real estate situated in Hungary. In addition to this general limitation, the following specific rules apply concerning the investments of an insurer: (1) technical reserves and insurance capital may not be invested in real estate situated abroad; (2) assets constituting the security capital and technical reserves of an insurer may not be invested in mortgage loans in which the real estate used as collateral is situated outside Hungary; (3) assets constituting the security capital and technical reserves of an insurer may not be placed in a current account held by a foreign credit institution; and (4) due to the specific treatment of investments in mortgage bonds issued by domestic mortgage loan companies (i.e., credit institutions), the ceiling on investment in debt securities issued by domestic credit institutions is higher than on that by foreign credit institutions (45%, compared with 20%). Mandatory private pension funds may not invest more than 30% of their assets in foreign securities. In the case of voluntary pension funds, a government decree limits the share of foreign investments to 30% of the fund's invested assets. There are no specific limitations on the foreign investment of investment (mutual) funds. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The regulations governing securities issued by nonresidents apply. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The mathematical reserves may be invested only in domestic securities and real estate situated in Hungary. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 427 Exchange arrangement April L The monthly depreciation of the forint was adjusted to 0.2% from 0.3%. Changes During 2001 May 4. The width of the band within which the forint trades against the euro was widened to ±15% from ±2.25% around the parity. October L The crawling peg was abolished and the central parity of the forint was fixed to the euro at Ft 276.1 per €1. Thus, the exchange arrangement of the forint was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category crawling band. June 16. Only a declaration is required to import or export more than Ft 1 million or its equivalent in foreign currency. Previously, residents and nonresidents were allowed to import or export up to Ft 350,000 a person a trip without authorization and exports of more than Ft 100,000 in foreign currency a person a trip required authorization. December 31. Parliament passed an act lifting all foreign exchange restrictions. June 16. All restrictions on holding and maintaining foreign exchange accounts, on accounts in domestic currency held abroad, and on conversion of accounts in domestic currency were lifted. June 16. Convertible forint accounts may be credited freely and converted into foreign currencies and their balances may be transferred freely. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds June 16. Repatriation requirements on exports were abolished. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers June 16. Requirements on proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers were eliminated. Capital transactions June 16. All remaining restrictions on capital transactions were lifted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 1. The preferential treatment of commercial banks' foreign liabilities denominated in foreign currency with a maturity of less than two years was discontinued, as 100% (previously 50%) of these liabilities were subject to the reserve requirement of 6%. July 1. The interest paid on reserves generated for foreign currency liabilities was made equal to that on reserves generated for forint liabilities (previously, it was 0.5 of a percentage point higher). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic kr6na. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Prior to March 28, 2001, the external value of the kr6na was pegged to a basket of nine currencies: the Canadian dollar, the Danish krone, the euro, the Japanese yen, the Norwe- gian krone, the pound sterling, the Swedish krona, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The basket was revised annually on the basis of external trade during the previous year, and the Central Bank of Iceland (CBI) intervened in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate within a margin of ±9% around the basket-determined rate. Effective March 28,2001, the CBI abolished the margins within which the kr6na fluctuated and allowed the external value of the kr6na is to be freely determined; as a result, the ex- change rate arrangement has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. No. No. Iceland has no organized forward market and the kr6na has no quoted forward exchange rate. However, forward contracts may be negotiated freely in all currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. The Ministry of Commerce (MC) has ultimate responsibility for imports and, in consulta- tion with the CBI, for capital movements and foreign exchange regulation. The MC imple- ments the control on inward foreign direct investment. The CBI licenses the foreign ex- change dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting requirements for statistical purposes and for implementation of control on inward foreign direct investment. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on exports of weapons and other military equipment to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and trade restrictions are in force against Iraq. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Resident Accounts 429 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Residents should inform the CBI on opening of bank accounts abroad. However, this requirement has not been enforced. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.r. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must report to the CBI the monthly positions of nonresident accounts. All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of goods and services are free, except when international agreements or provisions in special legislation provide otherwise. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Live animals and certain agricultural products require health certificates. Imports by tourists and foreign visitors are duty-free within general limits on the total, as well as on individual merchandise value, and quantitative limits are set on alcohol and tobacco by the customs authorities. Yes. Tobacco may be imported only under state trading arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of military, fisheries, and agricultural products require licenses from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 ICELAND Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The purchase of shares or other equity capital may be affected by laws on foreign investment in Iceland. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regulated by a special law on foreign investment: (1) foreign investment is prohibited in the fisheries and primary fish processing industry, as only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered entities, where foreign ownership does not exceed 25%, may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing facilities; this limit can be extended to 33% if the foreign investment in domes- tic entities does not exceed 5% of the total equity; (2) investments by foreign governments and public authorities are prohibited in Iceland; the MC may grant exemptions from this restriction and the restrictions below, which do not apply to residents of the EEA; (3) there are controls on the ownership of, or right to harness, waterfalls and geothermal energy, where restrictions apply to investment in power production and distribution companies; (4) investments in domestic airlines may not exceed 49%; and (5) the above and other special laws also stipulate restricted conditions for residency of managers and majority of voting power in holding companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 431 Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The conditions for owning real estate in Iceland are the following: (1) individual owners must be have a domicile in Iceland; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citizens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, with at least 80% owned by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors being Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural re- sources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits The CBI regulates the net foreign exchange position of the banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Portfolio investments of pension funds are restricted to listed securities in organized mar- kets within OECD countries or in other markets approved by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Foreign exchange exposure of pension funds is limited to 50% of their total assets. No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement March 28. The fluctuation margins for the kr6na were abolished. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of India is the Indian rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) purchases and sells spot and forward dollars from and to authorized dealers (ADs) in the interbank market at the market exchange rate. No. No. ADs are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. Forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. The RBI may enter into swap transactions with ADs, under which it buys or sells spot dollars and sells or buys forward dollars for maturities available in the market. A resident may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge against exchange risks. ADs are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover to foreign institutional investors (FIIs) to the extent of 15% of their outstanding equity investment as of the close of business on March 31, 1999, converted to dollars at the rate of Rs 42.43 per US$1 plus the increase in market value/inflow after that date. Existing forward contracts booked in accordance with earlier instructions were allowed to continue. Nonresident Indians (NRIs) and overseas corporate bodies (OCBs) may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge the amount of dividend due to them or the balances held in their foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts or nonresident external accounts. They are also eligible to have forward cover in respect of their investments in portfolio invest- ment schemes along the lines of the facility for FIIs described above. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGCI) provides protection against exchange fluctuation with respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract. Exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGCI. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) member countries of the ACU (except Bhutan and Nepal) and (2) the external group (all other coun- tries). In the first group, all payments on account of eligible current international transac- tions, except payments relating to travel, must be settled through the ACU arrangement. In other cases, payments may be settled in any permitted currency. Export-import transactions financed out of loans from international financial institutions are settled outside the ACU mechanism. Settlements of trade are made through the ACU dollar accounts, which are replenished through the RBI. Payments to countries in the second group may be made in Indian rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted cur- rency, and receipts from these countries may be obtained in Indian rupees from accounts of a bank situated in any of these countries or in any permitted currency. However, special 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency INDIA 433 rules may apply to exports under lines of credit extended by the government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. India is a member of the ACU. Although Bhutan and Nepal are members of the ACU, trade between India and Bhutan and India and Nepal is settled outside the ACU mechanism. Nepal is permitted to import from India against payment in freely convertible currency, in addition to the existing system of payment in Indian rupees. Transactions between all other ACU member countries are settled through ACU dollar accounts. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the general policy laid down by the government, in consultation with the RBI. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to ADs. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India, as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Apart from a few agencies authorized by the government, 13 banks are authorized by the RBI to import gold for sale in the domestic market. The export of personal jewelry by travelers is regulated under the Ministry of Commerce's export and import policy baggage rules. Other rules as regards the export and import of gold are spelled out in the Export and Import Policy 2002-2007. In general, the exportation of rupee notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is prohib- ited. Exports of rupee notes to Bhutan or Nepal in denominations higher than Rs 100 are also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 5,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. An authorized person (AP) may send out of India foreign currency acquired in the normal course of business. Any person may take out foreign exchange obtained from an AP and any unspent foreign currency owned or brought in during a previous visit. Any non-Indian resident person may take out unspent foreign exchange not exceeding the amount brought in (the amount must be declared if it exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000). The importation of rupee notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring in rupee notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Bhutan and Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 5,000 a person if they took out this amount when traveling abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds US$10,000 or its equivalent and/or if the aggregate value of for- eign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds US$5,000 or its equivalent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 Foreign exchange accounts permitted INDIA Resident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident ac- counts. However, residents of Nepal must obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Approval of the RBI is required for the opening of foreign currency accounts, both held domestically or abroad, except for those covered by general permission granted by the RBI. Exporters may open exchange earners' foreign currency (EEFC) ac- counts. These accounts are to be held only in non-interest bearing accounts, and no credit facility, be it funded or nonfunded, may be made available against the balances. These ac- counts may be used to (1) open offices abroad and to meet the expenses of these offices; (2) make investments from the account balance in overseas joint ventures up to the limit of US$100 million without reference to the RBI; and (3) pay all trade-related expenses in foreign exchange. Individuals residing in India may open foreign currency accounts desig- nated as resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts with foreign exchange from pensions or other payments from overseas employers or with other receipts—such as gifts or inheri- tances—that are permitted under the regulations. The balances held in such accounts may be used freely outside India. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts FCNR accounts denominated in dollars, deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001), eu- ros, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin and by overseas companies as specified above. These ac- counts may be opened only in the form of term deposits with a minimum maturity of one year and a maximum maturity of three years. All debits and credits permitted in respect of nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts are permissible in respect of these accounts as well. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the RBI. ADs are allowed to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of different persons main- tained with the same AD or other ADs for any purpose, subject to certain conditions. The current FCNR accounts operate in the same manner as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) bears the exchange risk. Foreign embassies, missions, and diplomats are permitted to open foreign currency ac- counts with ADs without the approval of the RBI, subject to certain conditions. Accounts related to all foreign countries other than Bhutan and Nepal are treated as nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during a visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. ADs may debit ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by RBI regulations. ADs may also permit transfers abroad of current income earned within India by the account holder, once the applicable taxes have been paid. NRER accounts may be opened for NRIs and nonresident persons of Indian origin (PIOs), or for overseas corporate bodies and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresident PIOs. In addition to ADs holding licenses under the Foreign Exchange Man- agement Act (FEMA), some state cooperative banks, certain urban cooperative banks, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 435 scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, subject to certain conditions. Such ac- counts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with (1) new funds remitted through banking channels from any country; (2) the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder; (3) foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India; (4) income from authorized investments; and (5) the transfer of funds from other NRER or FCNR accounts. ADs are allowed to transfer ftmds freely between NRER accounts of dif- ferent persons held with the same AD or different ADs. The accounts may be debited (1) for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad; and (2) for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Investments in the shares of Indian companies, in partnership firms and the like, or in immovable property may be made, provided that such an investment or purchase is covered by FEMA regulations or that general or special permission has been granted by the RBI. Interest on deposits in non- resident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from personal income tax, al- though juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transfer- able. The balances held in such accounts by natural persons are exempt from wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from gift tax. Diplomatic missions, their personnel and family members may open rupee accounts with ADs. NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs that are at least 60% owned, directly or indirectly, by NRIs, and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the interest is irrevocably held by such persons, are permitted to maintain nonresident (external) accounts. Balances in such accounts are freely convertible into foreign currency. Opening such accounts in the name of Pakistan or Bang- ladeshi nationals, though of Indian origin, requires RBI approval. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. n.a. Imports of capital goods are liberalized. The importation of the following is restricted: (1) certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; (2) safety, security, and related items; (3) seeds, plants, and animals; (4) insecticides and pesticides; (5) drugs and Pharmaceuticals; (6) chemicals and allied items relating to the small-scale sector; and (7) some consumer goods and certain other items. Importation is prohibited of tallow, fat and/or oils rendered or unrendered of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals (including their parts and products), and ivory. Imports from Iraq are also prohibited except in cases where prior approval of the relevant commit- tee of the UN Security Council has been obtained. The temporary interest surcharges were eliminated on January 6, 2001. The importation of certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible oils, seeds, and cereals is channeled through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Corpo- ration Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trading Corpora- tion of India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 INDIA Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment. Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the RBI are allowed a period of up to 15 months to realize export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from an AD if the export proceeds are not realized within the prescribed period. The RBI also administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the fu ll export value is paid in install- ments over more than six months. Exporters are permitted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign cur- rency accounts with banks in India. In the case of 100% export-oriented businesses, those in export-processing zones, and those in hardware/software technology parks, up to 70% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Units in a special economic zone (SEZ) may credit all of their exchange receipts to their EEFC accounts. Corporate exporters are permit- ted to extend trade-related advances to their importer clients out of their EEFC accounts up to US$3 million for each EEFC account without obtaining RBI approval. ADs are permit- ted to allow utilization of funds held in EEFC accounts for making payments for current and capital transactions that are permissible under FEMA regulations. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for exports of a few goods, e.g., mineral ores and concentrates, and chemicals. Licenses are also required for exports of goods that are covered by international treaty obligations regarding security and the environment. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Residents may obtain foreign exchange for bona fide current account transactions with some exceptions, such as 11 items related to public sector expenses and other items listed in this section. Remittances are allowed, subject to certain conditions, provided that all current taxes and other liabilities have been cleared. The RBI allows branches of foreign companies operating in India to remit profits to their head offices without the prior approval of the RBI. Foreign banks do not need RBI ap- proval for remittances of profits (net of taxes) earned in the normal course of business with their head offices. The remittance is subject to compliance with the Banking Act and RBI directives. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Travel-related expenses over the quantitative limits require RBI approval. Foreign ex- change is not made available for travel to Bhutan or Nepal or for transactions with residents of these countries. Indicative limits/bona fide test ADs may release foreign exchange in certain cases beyond indicative limits. Personal payments Quantitative limits Seventeen items related to personal expenses are subject to quantitative limits, beyond which RBI approval is required. ADs have the power to release foreign exchange in line with estimates of overseas medical costs. ADs may also release foreign exchange for higher studies abroad on the basis of cost estimates from the university or institution abroad. ADs may remit up to US$5,000 a year for maintenance of a resident's dependents abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 437 Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign workers, except those from Pakistan, are permitted to remit their entire net salaries to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Persons going abroad for any purpose (except for employment or emigration) may use in- ternational credit cards (ICCs) for all purposes, including for the purchase of articles for personal use within their entitlement of foreign exchange. The basic travel quota may also be obtained through the use of credit cards. The use of ICCs is allowed for imports of soft- ware through the Internet. Other payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Up to 50% of receipts may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. In the case of export-oriented units, units created in export-processing zones, software tech- nology parks, or electronic maintenance technology parks, 70% of remittances may be obtained from these accounts. Units in a SEZ may credit all of their foreign exchange re- ceipts to the EEFC account. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents FIIs are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secon- dary markets, including equity and other securities, and in instruments of companies listed or to be listed on the stock exchanges in India. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated gov- ernment securities, either on behalf of clients or by using proprietary funds. FIIs are re- quired to register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). For FIIs regis- tered for investments in equities, there is no control on the value of their investments in the primary and secondary markets, but investments in debt instruments may not exceed 30% of the total investment. However, FIIs may set up separately 100% debt funds, which may invest their portfolio in debt instruments within the overall approved debt ceiling. Portfolio investments in the primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 10% of the issued share capital for individual FII holdings and 24% (this ceiling may be raised to sectoral ceilings as applicable, provided the general meeting of the company passes a spe- cial resolution) of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depositary receipts (GDRs), and convertibles in the euromarket. The individual ceiling for NRIs, OCBs, and PIOs is 5% of the paid-up capital, and their aggregate investment ceilings are 10% of the paid-up share capital of a company. In the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 INDIA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents case of companies listed on the stock exchange, the ceiling may be raised to 24% of paid- up capital by passing a special resolution in the general meeting. Nonresidents are not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In the case of securi- ties of Indian companies held by nonresidents, transfers to a resident, other than by sale on the stock exchange, require RBI permission. Transfers of sale proceeds are permitted, sub- ject to tax, provided no controls were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds while approving the original investment. Transfers between two nonresidents do not require per- mission from the RBI, except where the recipient has a financial or technical collaboration in the same or a related field as the company whose shares are being transferred. Transfers from NRIs, PIOs, and OCBs to nonresidents other than NRIs, PIOs, or OCBs require RBI approval. RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any foreign security. In the case of a sale of foreign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to India is required, unless otherwise specified. General permission has been granted by the RBI to residents to hold, own, transfer, or invest in foreign currency or foreign securities outside India if the currency or security was acquired or held by the person while residing outside India, was received through an inheritance or as a gift from a person who was residing outside India, or was acquired during the pre-zero period (i.e., prior to July 8, 1947). The RBI also con- siders applications from resident employees of foreign companies and their joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries, in which the foreign company holds not less than 51% eq- uity, for remittances of up to the equivalent of US$20,000 an employee a year, for acquisi- tion of shares of the foreign company, subject to certain conditions. Similarly, applications are considered from employees of Indian software companies for remittances of the equiva- lent of US$10,000 in a five-year period for acquiring shares in overseas joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries of Indian companies, subject to certain conditions. The RBI also permits employees of Indian software companies to purchase foreign securities under the American depositary receipt (ADR) and GDR linked stock option schemes, provided that the consideration for purchase does not exceed the equivalent of US$50,000 in a five-year period. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NRIs and OCBs (predominantly those at least 60% owned by NRIs and nonresident PIOs) are allowed to invest in money market mutual funds floated by commercial banks and pub- lic or private sector financial institutions with authorization from the RBI or the SEBI on a nonrepatriation basis. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI approval. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase such instruments abroad without the authorization of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Resident companies require general or specific permission from the RBI to issue securities to NRIs or OCBs. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions, when made by NRIs or OCBs, do not require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing of collective investment securities by nonresidents on local markets in India is not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the RBI; the Unit Trust of India has been granted permission for issuing certain securities abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents ADs may offer forward contracts of NRIs and OCBs. The RBI may permit a resident com- pany to purchase a forward contract to hedge an investment that was made in India after January 1, 1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 439 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs are allowed to purchase hedge instruments for corporate clients and for their own asset/liability management. Exporters and importers are also allowed to hedge price expo- sures on commodities for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits A commercial credit of up to six months is allowed for exports on documents-against- acceptance terms. Contracts for exports involving payments to be realized beyond the nor- mal period of six months are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permit- ted, depending on the credit terms offered, the commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. This applies for turnkey, construction, and service contracts undertaken by Indian exporters on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the Export-Import Bank (EXIM Bank) offers credits to foreign buyers in connection with the export of capital goods and turnkey projects in India in participation with commercial banks in India. The EXIM Bank considers the creditworthiness, standing, and financial position of the overseas borrower; the economic viability of the project; the standing of the Indian exporter; and so forth. Proposals for raising foreign currency loans and credits —buyers' credits and suppliers' credits or lines of credit by firms or companies —for financing imports of goods and ser- vices for a period of more than six months, but less than three years, are considered by the RBI on terms and conditions in connection with the terms offered in overseas markets. Exporters are allowed to raise external commercial financing of up to three times their av- erage annual foreign exchange earnings during the previous three years, subject to a maxi- mum of US$200 million or the equivalent with a minimum average maturity of three years for up to US$20 million, and more than three years for the remainder, without end-use re- strictions (i.e., general corporate objectives, excluding investment in stock or in real estate). External commercial borrowing guidelines for exporters and shipping companies have been eased, facilitating overseas borrowing by eligible corporations. An Indian entity may lend in foreign exchange to its wholly owned subsidiary abroad. An Indian exporter may lend up to US$3 million or the equivalent from the funds held in an EEFC account for trade-related purposes to an overseas importing customer against a bank guarantee. Other transactions require prior permission from the RBI. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Prepayment of such loans and credits, and payments of interest and other charges on such loans may be made by ADs with general permission of the RBI. All legal entities, except trusts, may borrow abroad up to US$50 million under the automatic route without RBI approval. Borrowing proposals for loans of less than three years and those falling under the US$5 million and US$100 million schemes must be cleared by the RBI. External borrow- ing falling outside these schemes requires government approval. External borrowing is permitted for expenditures related to roads, bridges, ports, industrial parks, and urban infra- structure (water supply, sanitation, and sewerage projects). In addition to the previously designated sectors, power, railways, telecommunications, and license fee payments are also approved uses of external borrowing. Holding companies and promoters may raise external borrowing up to the equivalent of US$200 million to finance equity investment in a sub- sidiary company implementing infrastructure projects. Corporate borrowers may raise long-term resources with average maturities of 8 and 16 years up to US$200 million and US$400 million, respectively, and use the funds without any end-use restrictions (i.e., gen- eral corporate objectives), excluding investments in the stock market and real estate. Corporate borrowers are permitted to raise external borrowing to acquire ships and vessels from Indian shipyards. Corporate borrowers who had raised funds for the import of capital goods and services through bonds, floating rate notes, or syndicated loans are permitted to remit funds into India and deploy them, excluding investments in the stock market or in real estate, until their actual import of capital goods and services takes place or up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 INDIA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment one year, whichever is less. In case borrowers decide to deploy the funds abroad until the approved end-use requirement arises, they are eligible to do so in line with RBI guidelines. Borrowing limits for telecommunications projects are flexible, and an increase from the present 25% to 50% of the project cost is allowed. ADs are allowed to give performance bonds or guarantees in favor of overseas buyers in connection with bona fide exports from India, as well as guarantees in the ordinary course of business in respect of missing documents, authenticity of signatures, and other similar purposes. The RBI has granted general permission to agents of foreign shipping and airline companies to give guarantees on behalf of their companies in respect of any debt or other obligation—such as income tax, customs, or post—to any central or state government agency in India. The RBI has permitted ADs to grant loans to residents against guarantees from nonresi- dents, subject, among other things, to the condition that no direct or indirect payment is made abroad by way of guarantee, commission, or otherwise. Indian companies acquiring foreign companies or investing directly abroad in joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries may invest up to the equivalent of US$100 million a year through the automatic route. RBI approval is required for investments exceeding this ceil- ing. Companies may invest 100% of the proceeds of their ADR and GDR issues for acqui- sition of foreign companies and direct investment in joint ventures and wholly owned sub- sidiaries. Indian companies investing in Myanmar and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries are allowed the equivalent of an additional US$25 million a year under the automatic route. This route is not available for investments in Pakistan. In respect of rupee investments in Bhutan and Nepal under the automatic route, the annual limit is Rs 3.5 billion. Registered partnership firms that provide certain specified professional services, such as chartered accountancy, legal services, health care services, information technology, and entertainment software-related services are permitted to invest abroad in foreign concerns in the same line of activity up to the equivalent of US$1 million under the automatic route. Such investments exceeding this ceiling require RBI approval. Any Indian company that has issued ADRs or GDRs may acquire shares of foreign compa- nies engaged in the same area of core activity up to the equivalent of US$100 million or ten times their annual exports, whichever is higher. Effective March 2, 2001, Indian employees of foreign-owned companies may invest up to the equivalent of US$20,000 a year in employee-stock ownership plan schemes (previously US$10,000 a year in a block of five years). Indian companies may issue up to 100% of equity to nonresidents under the automatic route in most sectors, except for a small list that requires the approval of the Foreign In- vestment Promotion Board (FIPB) and for another seven items where less than 100% is allowed. There are other exclusions, such as industrial licensing and locational policies. Foreign direct investment is permitted in nonretail trading companies. Trading companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and must obtain a certifi- cate of their status as export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before apply- ing to the RBI for remittances or dividends. The automatic route permits foreign investment of up to 51% of the paid-in capital of such Indian companies. Applications for investment in areas that do not fall within the automatic route but that are covered by the foreign investment policy require FIPB approval. Such investments may be approved in accordance with the sector-specific guidelines and sectoral equity ceilings. The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approv- als. General permission has also been granted to SEBI-registered foreign venture capital investors to invest in an Indian venture capital undertaking or a venture capital fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 441 NRIs or PIOs may invest freely in any public or private limited company or in any partner- ship or proprietary concern engaged in any activity except agricultural or plantation activi- ties and real estate (excluding real estate development, such as construction of houses, etc.), provided (1) funds for investment are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or drawn from their nonresident accounts; (2) repatriation of the capital invested will not be requested; and (3) overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible deben- tures bought through the stock exchange by NRIs (see below) are adhered to. OCBs, societies, and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by NRIs or PIOs and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by NRIs are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited company, in accordance with the above provisions. NRIs, as defined above, may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their non- resident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio invest- ments with repatriation benefits of up to 5% of the capital, provided that their total holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed 10% (extendable to 24% if the general meeting of the investing company passes a special resolution) of the paid-up capital of the company or of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company; (2) invest freely in national savings certificates with full repatriation benefits. Existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to prescribed percent- ages of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential alloca- tion of shares to the foreign investor; and (3) invest on a nonrepatriable basis in money market mutual funds (only NRIs and OCBs), subject to RBI approval. Effective Febru- ary 16, 2001, the facility for acquisition by foreign investors of shares and convertible de- bentures of Indian companies engaged in the print media sector was eliminated. Shares may be sold freely on the stock exchange; however, other sales of shares, securities, or immovable property require approval of the RBI. Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition of nonrepatriation was imposed when approv- ing the original investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A person resident in India may hold, own, or transfer any immovable property outside In- dia, provided that such property was acquired while the person was resident outside India or it was obtained through an inheritance or as a gift. They are also free to dispose of such property or acquire new property from the sale proceeds of such property. Residents may buy immovable property abroad using RFC accounts. NRIs and OCBs (predominantly those owned by NRIs) may invest in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.). Remittances of disinvestment are allowed up to the original investment in foreign exchange. Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is permitted up to the amount brought in to purchase the property. ADs may lend to NRIs in rupees to purchase immovable property, shares for personal busi- ness, or mortgages. Other transactions require the approval of the RBI. These transactions require the approval of the RBI. NRIs are permitted to grant loans on a nonrepatriation basis to residents for a period not exceeding three years and with an interest rate not exceeding the bank rate by more than 2%. ADs are allowed to permit remittances of gifts and donations up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a year by residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 Transfer of assets INDIA Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions require the approval of the RBI. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittances of earnings from sweepstakes, betting, and lotteries are not permitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Borrowing is subject to approval by the government, the MOF, and the Department of Eco- nomic Affairs. ADs may avail themselves of loans, overdrafts, and other types of fund- based credit facilities from their overseas branches and correspondents of up to 25% of their unimpaired Tier I capital or the equivalent of US$10 million, whichever is higher. Loans or overdrafts in excess of this limit may be obtained without prior approval from the RBI solely for the purpose of replenishing the dealers' rupee resources in India. Repayment of such borrowing requires prior approval from the RBI, which may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the RBI or any other bank or financial institution and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. There are no controls on ADs maintaining accounts abroad. Shipping and airline companies incorporated in India are allowed to open foreign currency accounts to operate their busi- ness. In all other cases, specific permission by the RBI is required. The RBI has granted general permission to certain categories of persons to maintain foreign currency accounts abroad for specific purposes, subject to certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) ADs are free to manage surplus balances in their exchange accounts through overnight placement and investments with their branches or correspondent banks, subject to a limit of 15% of their Tier I capital or the equivalent of US$10 million, whichever is higher. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may lend to residents to meet bona fide foreign exchange requirements toward preshipment credit in foreign currency for financing domestic inputs. Banks may also use their FCNR deposit resources to grant loans to residents for their bona fide foreign currency requirements. No scheme is in place allowing for these transactions. Yes. Interest rates on resident deposits for maturities of over 15 days have been completely de- regulated. However, interest rates on FCNR (banks) deposits are subject to a ceiling of 50 basis points over the LIBOR or the swap rate for the corresponding maturity by 25 basis points. Interest rates on nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit schemes are deregulated for all maturities. At present, all nonresident deposits, in both local and foreign currency, are subject to the same cash reserve requirements and statutory liquidity ratios. Banks are required to maintain on an ongoing basis Tier I and Tier III capital at 9% of the open position limit approved by the RBI, and the overall open position limit must be approved by the RBI. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 443 Imports and import payments January 6. The temporary interest surcharges on import finance were eliminated. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment February 16. The facility for acquisition by foreign investors of shares and convertible debentures of Indian companies engaged in the print media sector was eliminated. March 2. Indian employees of foreign-owned companies were allowed to invest up to the equivalent of US$20,000 a year in employee-stock ownership plan schemes (previously US$10,000 a year in a block of five years). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 7,1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian rupiah. Two commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined by supply and demand conditions. Effective January 1, 2001, Bank Indonesia (BI) issued new regulations introducing comprehensive restrictions on rupiah transactions between onshore banks and residents and limiting each bank's for- ward sale of foreign exchange to nonresidents in an effort to reduce exchange rate volatil- ity. As a result, effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Indonesia has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the ex- change rate from the category independently floating. No. No. Forward foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents are limited to $3 million (prior to January 12, 2001, $5 million) for each bank and for each customer. These restrictions do not apply to investment-related transactions (i.e., equity participation, purchase of securities, and credit provisions). Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Indonesia is a member of the ASEAN. Barter agreements and open accounts There are countertrade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored construction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million. Administration of control The Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the authority to institute regulations regarding commercial offshore borrowing. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On March 27, 2002, the Indonesian authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of and to prohibit payments to listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions against countries on which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Payments arrears No. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency INDONESIA 445 Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of BI. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of Rp 25 per $1. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 5 million a person. For amounts in excess of this limit and up to Rp 10 million, a declaration must be made to customs officials, while for amounts exceeding Rp 10 million, the prior approval of BI is required in addition to the customs declaration. Travelers may bring in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 5 million a person. For the repatriation of amounts in excess of this limit, the same conditions apply as for exports. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. Resident Accounts Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Nonresident Accounts Yes. Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Requirements in general are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. Exporters, however, require banks to guarantee a 100% face value of red-clause LCs and advance payments. Cement/asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Domiciliation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly INDONESIA LCs may be issued by foreign exchange banks in the form of sight or usance LCs. Payment settlement under usance LCs should not be more than 360 days. Imports from countries against which the United Nations has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain prod- ucts. Secondhand engines, however, and their parts and other capital goods may be im- ported by industrial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOT). Certain cate- gories of agricultural imports, including foodstuffs, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the MOT. The procurement policies of compa- nies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chicken are evaluated annually by the government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized importers that includes only Indonesian nationals, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Al- though all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the General Importer License. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the AFTA and the WTO. A 5% tariff applies to imports of capital goods and raw materials. Import taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Petramina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and Dahana on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of cer- tain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas Exporters (producers or suppliers) may sell their export proceeds to BI through a rediscount facility. Drafts may be rediscounted in rupiah or foreign currency. Such drafts denominated in currencies other than the dollar, euro, pound sterling, and yen must first be converted into dollars. The maximum remaining period to maturity of drafts that can be rediscounted by foreign exchange banks to BI is 720 days. BI sets the discount rate for daily rediscount transactions based on the Singapore interbank offered rate for various maturities plus a margin. Exports with sight LC conditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of goods containing imported material that received import tax abolishment from the government must be examined before shipment. Yes. Exports are prohibited to countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo, as are exports to all countries of certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to obtain trade permits issued by the MOT. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior MOT authorization in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, iron ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 447 for construction reinforcement, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to the suspension of exports of various items in this category. Manioc may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consumer countries may be exported only by approved textile ex- porters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. Export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 per cubic meter are applied to sawed and proc- essed timber. Exports of logs are subject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 per cubic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions Effective January 12, 2001, resident banks are prohibited from conducting the following transactions with nonresidents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds with nonresidents; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securi- ties issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rupiah; and (5) equity participa- tion in rupiah with nonresidents. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase without limit shares issued by Indonesian com- panies in the Indonesian capital market. There is a limit on the ownership of a joint securi- ties company that is a finance company. Foreign companies are permitted to issue Indonesian Depository Receipts (IDRs) through custodian banks in Indonesia. IDRs are instruments that facilitate the trading of shares of foreign companies in the Indonesian capital market. Custodian banks in turn issue IDRs based on the shares that the foreign companies have put in the custodian bank. No control applies as long as the shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (ISM). If those securities are listed on the ISM, they initially should comply with the Capi- tal Market Act and with the requirement on the maximum percentage of foreign ownership of shares. However, Indonesian companies do not issue shares but rather American Deposi- tory Receipts (ADRs) in the U.S. capital market and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 INDONESIA Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Banks are prohibited from purchasing securities denominated in rupiah issued by nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks are allowed to issue securities on primary capital markets, subject to regulations on offshore loans. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks require approval from the COLT for issuance of instruments with maturities of over two years or for amounts exceeding $20 million a year a creditor; total issuances, however, should not exceed 30% of a bank's capital. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Derivative transactions, other than those associated with foreign exchange and interest rates, are prohibited. Exception may be made by BI for derivative transactions related to stock margins. Banks are obliged to enter into a written agreement with their clients and explain the risks of these transactions and also to submit a weekly report to BI. Losses from derivative transactions exceeding 10% of each bank's capital must be reported to BI imme- diately. Forward and swap sales or option transactions involving selling foreign currency call or purchasing foreign currency against rupiah by domestic banks to nonresidents are limited to $3 million a bank a customer. These controls do not apply to investment-related transactions (e.g., equity participation, purchase of securities, and credit provisions). Banks are prohibited from maintaining derivative exposure transacted by the bank's owners, directors, employees, commissioners, or any other party linked to the bank, as well as from extending credit facilities and overdrafts for the purpose of derivative transactions to the bank's debtors. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents In general, resident entities are prohibited from granting credit to nonresident entities. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Resident entities, especially the nonbank private sector, may borrow from nonresidents; however, they have to submit periodic reports to BI on their borrowing. The following are subject to approval by the Coordinating Minister of Economy: (1) borrowings related to development projects using nonrecourse, limited recourse, advance payment, trustee bor- rowing, leasing, and similar financing; (2) borrowings related to some development pro- jects; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company (including the State Bank of Pertamina), including in the form of government equity participation or guarantee for provision of feedstock supply. In general, there are no controls on the granting of credit by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad INDONESIA 449 Banks are allowed to provide sureties and guarantees to nonresident entities only under the following conditions: (1) when there is sufficient contraguarantee from bona fide overseas banks (excluding overseas branches of the relevant bank); and (2) when there is a cash deposit valued at 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are controlled: (1) foreign investment companies in infrastructure projects such as seaports, electricity generation, transmission and distribution for public use, tele- communications, shipping, airlines, potable water supply, public railways, and nuclear electric power generation should be established by way of joint venture between foreign and Indonesian partners, and the share of Indonesian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, which means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign citizen and/or entities. However, some of the company's shares must be sold to Indonesian citizens and/or entities through direct placement and/or indirectly through the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after the commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownership of direct investments must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of production. For investments above $50 million, divestment of 50% must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive preferential customs duty treatment for im- ports of required raw materials for the first two years of production activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to meet its export commitments. Income tax holdings for up to eight years are granted to newly established corporations in 22 industrial sectors. Takeovers of nonstrategic operations by foreign investors without government approval are permitted. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to deprecia- tion allowances. No transfer permit is issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. Nonresidents are allowed to buy land only with the title status "the right to use land," but since the title to real estate in Indonesia is "the right to build on land," they are not al- lowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inward direct investment in local real estate. Yes. No. Effective January 12, 2001, resident banks are prohibited from conducting the following transactions with nonresidents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds with nonresidents; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securi- ties issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rupiah; and (5) equity participa- tion in rupiah with nonresidents. The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. Its prior approval is re- quired before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Resident banks or credit institutions, specifically the ones that deal with international trade and finance activities, are allowed to borrow abroad within limits. An annual borrowing ceiling is imposed by BI for foreign commercial borrowing of more than two years' maturity. In addition, the prospective borrowers must obtain COLT decisions for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 INDONESIA queuing on the international capital market before soliciting for such borrowings. Besides, banks may receive foreign commercial borrowing with maturities of no more than two years with an amount not exceeding $20 million a creditor on a bilateral basis without prior approval from BI, but the banks should maintain the total amount of such borrowings at or below a maximum of 30% of their capital. Trade financing, such as the issuance of LCs, red-clause LCs, supplier's and buyer's credits with maturities not exceeding one year and amounts of less than $20 million, are not considered borrowings that require approval from the COLT. A bank that has received a medium- to long-term foreign commercial lending facility (PKLN) ceiling must provide export credit of at least 80% of the PKLN received for the year concerned. Foreign commercial borrowings received by financial institutions, such as leasing companies, factoring companies, and consumer financing companies, may not exceed five times the company's net worth less its equity share. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans or financial and commercial credits in either rupiah or foreign exchange to nonresidents, including those with authorization from residents to ob- tain credit. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange. Banks may also purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that the secu- rities must be investment grade and should not be issued by their groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regulations, namely the regulation on net open position aimed at prudential control. This is allowed; however, transactions are limited by open position limits. Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are subject to a 3% reserve requirement, while that for accounts in rupiah is 5%. Banks are only permitted to place their investments in financial institutions, and this should not exceed 25% of a bank's capital as well as 15% of the financial institution's capital. Equity participation of foreign banks in a joint bank can reach 99%. There is a requirement that foreign legal entities obtain a recommendation from the monetary authorities of their country of origin. Such a recommendation should at least include information that the for- eign legal entity has a good reputation and has never conducted any disgraceful act in the banking business. At the end of each business day, the total daily consolidated net open position (NOP), which covers both on- and off-balance-sheet items as well as both on- and offshore branches, must not exceed 20% of bank's capital after a transitional period. Banks must submit a weekly report of their daily consolidated net open position to BI. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance and reinsurance companies licensed in Indonesia are not allowed to invest abroad except for private placement in companies conducting insurance business overseas, such as insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, etc. Indone- sian mutual funds are prohibited from investing abroad. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Liabilities denominated in foreign currency of insurance and reinsurance companies ex- ceeding assets denominated in foreign currency shall not be more than 10% of sharehold- ers' equity. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions INDONESIA 451 Changes During 2001 January 1. BI issued new regulations introducing comprehensive restrictions on rupiah transactions between onshore banks and residents and limiting each bank's forward sale of foreign exchange to nonresidents. January 12. The limit on forward foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents was lowered to $3 million from $5 million for each customer at each bank. June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Indonesia was reclassified to the category man- aged floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independ- ently floating. January 12. Resident banks were prohibited from conducting the following transactions with nonresidents: (1) lending or provision of overdrafts in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds with nonresidents; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securities issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rupiah; and (5) equity participation in rupiah with nonresidents. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 27. The Indonesian authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of and to prohibit payments to listed individuals and organizations as- sociated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian rial. On March 21,2002, the official exchange rate was abolished and the exchange rate sys- tem was unified. Prior to that date, the exchange rate system consisted of two officially approved rates: (1) the official rate of Rls 1,750 per $1 applied mainly to the imports of essential goods and services as well as servicing public and publicly guaranteed debt; and (2) an effective Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) rate, applicable to imports from a positive list issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). There was also an unofficial exchange market and the Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (BMJII) allowed commercial banks limited access to this market to cover certain current transactions; the rate on the unofficial market differed from the TSE exchange rate by about 1%. Effective March 21, 2002, the official exchange rate of the rial was abolished and a unified exchange rate regime based on a managed floating exchange rate arrangement was adopted. The new exchange rate of the rial is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. As a result, effective March 30,2002, the exchange arrangement of the Islamic Republic of Iran has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. No. Prior to the elimination of the official exchange rate (on March 21, 2002), government oil export proceeds, surrendered to the BMJII at Rls 1,750 per $1, were mostly earmarked for imports of essential goods and services as well as servicing public and publicly guaranteed debt, which gave rise to an implicit exchange subsidy. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. All bilateral payments arrangements have been terminated and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Regional arrangements The Islamic Republic of Iran is a member of the ACU. Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the ACU are required to be settled in AMUs. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions Foreign exchange operations are centralized at the BMJII. The list of allowed imports and exports is regulated and issued periodically by the MOC. Effective March 21, 2002, foreign exchange may be purchased for authorized goods and services. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On April 10, 2002, the BMJII notified the IMF that all banking, finance, and credit insti- tutions had been instructed to freeze suspect accounts, based on an official list. These 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 453 measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1267, 1333, and 1373. Yes. No. Authority to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the BMJII. Exports of gold ingots, coins, or semifinished products are prohibited. Exports of finished articles may be effected in accordance with relevant regulations. Natural and juridical persons, including authorized banks, may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for commercial purposes, in accordance with the relevant regulations. The importation of more than a rea- sonable amount of personal jewelry for personal use requires approval from the BMJII. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from the BMJII. Yes. Residents leaving Iran are allowed to purchase up to $2,000 or its equivalent a person a year at the current market rate. Yes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange that foreign travelers may bring into the country, but a declaration is required to be able to repatriate the excess amount not used in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Iranian nationals may open foreign currency-denominated (FCD) accounts both domesti- cally and abroad. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange originating abroad and deposited in these accounts may be transferred abroad without limitations. Domestic currency accounts The balance of rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Yes. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Prior to February 7, 2001, requirements ranged from 15% to 100% of the LC amount, de- pending on the type of import. Effective that date, the minimum advance payment require- ment was lowered to 10% of the LC amount. Effective March 21, 2002, authorized finan- cial institutions may determine at their discretion the amount of advance payments for opening LCs. Yes. Yes. Imports through LCs and bills of exchange are permitted. Yes. Yes. All importers must obtain import licenses from relevant ministries together with the ap- proval of the BMJII for foreign exchange allocation at a particular exchange rate or the opening of LCs with the respective commercial banks. Clearance through customs is au- thorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the MOC. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals, must be accompanied by a special permit issued by the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education, and telecommunication devices require a permit issued by the Ministry of the Post, Tele- graph, and Telephone. There was a positive import list of 47 broad categories of goods for imports that, effective January 24,2001, could be imported at the TSE exchange rate. With the elimination of the TSE exchange rate on March 21, 2002, this practice was eliminated. Authorized goods cover a broad category of items, which is announced periodically by the MOC. Some goods may be imported under certain conditions with special permits. Imports from Israel are prohibited. At the beginning of each year, the MOC issues the list of goods that may be imported without prior approval. Licenses with quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most imports are subject to an ad valorem commercial benefit tax in addition to any applicable customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters receive certificates of deposit against the repatriation of their foreign exchange earnings, which must be repatriated within eight months (for capital goods, within five years) and which they may use for their imports, sell on the TSE to other licensed import- ers, or sell to the bank at the preceding day's rate in the interbank foreign exchange market (prior to March 21,2002, at the TSE rate). Exporters also receive a 2% bonus in the form of a retention allowance for each month of early repatriation and, until March 21, 2002, for the surrender of foreign exchange. There was no repatriation requirement for exports of handicrafts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 455 Surrender requirements Prior to March 21, 2002, when the surrender requirements applicable to non-oil exporters were eliminated, surrender ratios were the same as those for repatriation requirements. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees The export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions and bills of exchange is permitted. Shorter-term trade financing is currently undertaken through bank-to-bank credit lines, where exporters are certain of receiving their sales proceeds on a sight basis through a post- importation financing facility already established between the BMJII and the respective foreign banks. Under this umbrella facility, the BMJII provides an implicit foreign ex- change guarantee against rial/dollar devaluation (but not against fluctuations in cross rates, which would have to be met by the importers). Preshipment inspection Inspection by the customs authorities generally applies to all exports. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes The MOC issues an overall export license for goods on the authorized list. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Invisible payments may be made over BMJII limits from externally sourced FCD accounts. Trade-related payments Freight charges may only be transferred through LCs or bills of exchange up to a maximum of 30% of the f.o.b. value of goods; to transfer more than 30% requires the approval of the BMJII. Only Iranian insurance companies may issue insurance policies for the import of goods. Approval is on a case-by-case basis for unloading and storage costs, and payment of administrative charges. There is no control on the payment of commissions. Prior approval Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Approval is on a case-by-case basis for profits and dividends. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits and bona fide tests for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are $1,000 a person for those traveling with a group passport and $2,000 for a person with an individual passport (prior to March 21, 2002, the latter limit was $2,000 a trip up to a maximum of $6,000 a year). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Iranian nationals are allowed to pay pensions and family maintenance to nonresident em- ployees and are allowed to transfer these payments through the banking system (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the TSE rate). Yes. Allowances are provided on a monthly basis to students on scholarships abroad, approved by the Ministry of Higher Education, and may be converted into foreign exchange (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the official rate of Rls 1,750 per $1). All other students abroad are allowed to purchase limited amounts of foreign exchange for tuition and boarding (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the TSE rate), and beyond that from externally sourced FCD accounts. Individuals who seek medi- cal treatment abroad may obtain a foreign exchange allowance, if it is approved by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the official rate of Rls 1,750 per $1). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Foreign nationals working in the public sector in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose con- tracts are in rials are allowed to remit abroad up to 50% of their net salaries a month (prior to March 21, 2002, these transactions were effected at the TSE rate), up to a monthly limit of $500 or to transfer 100% of their salaries at the current market rate without limitation. Foreign workers in the private sector are allowed to transfer 100% of their salaries at the interbank foreign exchange market rate without limitation. Those working in either sector with contracts in foreign exchange are also allowed to transfer 100%. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payment of consulting/legal fees with the approval of the Bureau of Legal Services of Iran is permitted. Yes. There are limits on payment of subscriptions and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in instruments traded on the TSE, but such investments are not protected under the investment law. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment There are controls on all credit operations and all transactions in sureties, guarantees, and financial backup facilities. Outward direct investment Permitted with the confirmation of the High Council for Investment. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls are administered by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Techni- cal Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, if the investment took place in accordance with the Law Concerning Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investment. The repatriation of capital is guaranteed with the approval of the Organization for Invest- ment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the BMJII. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 457 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments Changes During 2001 January 24. All authorized goods and those requiring a special permit may be imported at the TSE exchange rate. February 7. The minimum advance payment requirement was lowered to 10% of the LC amount. Exchange arrangement March 21. The implicit exchange subsidy was eliminated. Changes During 2002 March 21. The official exchange rate was eliminated and the exchange rate system was unified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments March 30. The exchange arrangement of the Islamic Republic of Iran was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. March 21. The sale of foreign exchange for authorized goods and services was permitted. April 10. The BMJII notified the IMF that all banking, finance, and credit institutions had been instructed to freeze suspect accounts, based on an official list. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1267, 1333, and 1373. March 21. Authorized financial institutions were allowed to determine at their discretion the amount of advance payments for opening LCs. Exports and export proceeds March 21. The surrender requirements applicable to non-oil exporters were eliminated. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 21. The maximum travel-related payment for a person traveling with an individual passport was reduced to $2,000 a year from $6,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Effective June 30, 2001, in light of information that state banks are allowed to transact at the prevailing market rate, effectively legalizing the parallel market rate, the exchange rate arrangement of Iraq was reclassified to the category managed floating with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Prior to that date, the Iraqi dinar was pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. n.a. Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI). Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the CBI and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor of the CBI. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade (MOT) formulates import policy and the annual import program. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Yes. n.a. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that they declare it upon importation. Resi- dents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding five grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought with them for personal use. The maximum amount allowed is ID 5. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency IRAQ Amounts up to ID 1,000 are allowed. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli cur- rency), in unlimited amounts, provided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident Iraqis and resident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts with- out restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Iraqis and nonresident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these ac- counts without restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank- notes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which involve current payment transactions, and special nonresident accounts, which involve capital transfer transactions. Balances on these accounts and any applicable interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year in three installments to cover personal expenses in their country of residence. For all other cases, approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank provides foreign exchange upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances when reference must be made to the CBI. Imports are restricted by UN sanctions. Licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 461 Import taxes and/or tariffs To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies undertaking development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non- Iraqi workers. State import monopoly Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters of 13 goods manufactured by firms in the public sector must repatriate 60% of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and sur- render them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export pro- ceeds in a foreign exchange account with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses Exports are restricted by UN sanctions. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The MOT may prohibit the exportation of any commod- ity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles require permission. Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is available only for the payment of freight and insurance. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for their exports. Yes. The basic allowance for travel to Arab countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Information is available only for payment of medical and study abroad costs. Yes. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries, such as India; the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU; and countries in North Africa, where students are paid a fixed amount in dollars. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are nationals of Arab countries employed by the Ministry of Higher Education, and of sci- entific researchers and medical doctors, in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Yes. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 a person if not insured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled noncontrac- tual workers employed in the nationalized sector by the government are entitled to ID 40 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 IRAQ person a month. Persons under 16 years or over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Most capital transactions abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All investments abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural, and tourism sectors; participation is encouraged by the Arab Investment Law. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that their contribution and profits are paid in Iraqi dinars and that the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 463 100% of the profits distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of their paid-in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investments. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Iraq was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ireland is the euro. Through February 9,2002, however, the Irish pound remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 9, 2002, both the Irish pound and the euro circulated. On February 10, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Ireland participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1,2001), Italy, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the Irish pound was set at IR£0.787564 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. No. Yes. Restrictions on financial transfers with the UNITA movement in Angola, Iraq, Myanmar, the Taliban, and certain individuals associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are applied in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and EU regulations. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 465 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts may be blocked in accordance with the relevant EU regulations. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originat- ing in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly The EU system of customs duties applies to imports. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of controlled military and dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 IRELAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for a very limited number of sectors that are subject to special conditions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, individuals, and companies whose principal place of residence or registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Development through its Land Services Division for permission to purchase land. Such permission is rarely withheld. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Irish pound could be used for payments through February 9, 2002. February JO. The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Israel is the new Israeli sheqel. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed against a basket of currencies comprising the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the yen. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a crawling band in response to market forces. The upper and lower limits of the band, which are adjusted daily, were originally derived to reflect the annual difference be- tween the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation of the main trading partners. In the past few years, however, the practice has changed, such that only the slope of the lower limit has been reduced, whenever possible, while the upper limit has remained un- changed at a steeper slope. The slope of the upper limit has been 6% on an annual basis since July 26, 1993; the slope of the lower limit has been 2% since August 6,1998. On December 23, 2001, the lower limit became flat and, on December 31, 2001, the width of the band, based on the average of the upper and lower limits, was 44%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange; it is adminis- tered by the Bank of Israel (BOI) in cooperation with other government agencies. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to classify the accounts of residents of areas under autonomous Palestin- ian administration as a separate group and to report on the basis of the same principles that apply to nonresident accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 ISRAEL Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment require licensing. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 469 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities The Foreign Exchange Control Regulations prescribe direct reporting to the Controller of Foreign Exchange of outward portfolio investments and for offerings abroad by Israeli corporations for amounts above $5 million. Individuals and nonprofit organizations are required to report to the Controller of Foreign Exchange all outward portfolio investments above $5 million. Households may freely purchase securities abroad. Effective December 23,2001, the ratio of direct and portfolio investments abroad to assets that is applied to institutional investors was increased to 20% from 5%. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment No. No. Effective December 23,2001, the ratio of direct and portfolio investments to assets that is applied to institutional investors was increased to 20% from 5%. The Foreign Exchange Regulations require direct reporting to the Controller of Foreign Exchange of outward di- rect investments above $5 million. New immigrants and Israeli citizens returning to Israel after having resided abroad for seven years or more are exempted from direct reporting for a three-year period. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Investment in real estate by institutional investors is included in the calculation of the ratio of direct and portfolio investments abroad to assets, which, effective December 23, 2001, was increased to 20% from 5%. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements All foreign currency accounts held by nonresidents are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, half of which must be deposited with the BOI in an interest-generating account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 ISRAEL Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements The same reserve ratios apply to bank accounts held by both residents and nonresidents. Reserve requirements against resident foreign currency accounts are denominated in local currency, whereas reserve requirements against nonresident foreign currency accounts are denominated in foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective December 23,2001, the ratio of direct and portfolio investments to assets that is applied to institutional investors was increased to 20% from 5%. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally There is no minimum limit, although prudential regulations may apply. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Changes During 2001 December 23. The lower limit of the exchange rate band fell by 1 percentage point and became flat. December 31. The width of the exchange rate band, based on the average of the upper and lower limits, was 44%. Provisions specific to institutional investors December 23. The ratio of direct and portfolio investments to assets that is applied to institutional investors was increased to 20% from 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Italy is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Italian lira remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Italian lira and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Italy participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1,2001), Ireland, Luxem- bourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1,2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the Italian lira was set at Lit 1,936.27 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries are effected in quoted currencies or in euros through foreign accounts. Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either indirectly—through the Bank of Italy (BOI), other financial intermediar- ies, and the Poste Italiane S.p.a.—or directly by drawing on external accounts or by offset- ting debts and credits vis-^-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and intermediar- ies must transmit, for statistical purposes, data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (FEO) on those foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of €10,000 by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return. On March 28, 2002, the Italian authorities notified the IMF that, with effect from March 6 and December 27,2001, funds and other financial resources of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations involved in terrorism, respectively, had been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 ITALY In accordance with UN sanctions Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments for current and capital transac- tions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, and the UNIT A movement in Angola. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Domestic purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 must be declared to the FEO. Controls on external trade Purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 must be declared to the FEO. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country un- limited amounts of cash and securities in Italian lire and/or foreign currency. For fiscal and anti-money laundering purposes, the transfer of cash and/or securities exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 must be declared by filling out a form when crossing the border into or out of non-EU countries and submitting the form to border customs offices; for EU-country entry or exit, this declaration must be submitted at banks, customs offices, post offices, or a customs guard station within 48 hours after entry into Italian territory or 48 hours prior to exit from Italian territory. For transfers by mail, the declaration must be submitted within 48 hours after receipt or at the time of mailing. The declaration has to be sent to the FEO by banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts There are accounts blocked in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are governed by EU regulations according to which imports of most products, except for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 473 to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, but are subject to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports to non-EU countries are permitted freely, with the exception of high-technology products included in an EU regulation and of oil extracted from the seabed, which are sub- ject to ministerial authorization. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The public offering in Italy of securities issued by mutual funds that are not covered by EU directives is subject to authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. No. No~ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 ITALY Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Portfolio investments abroad by life insurance and pension funds are subject to prudential regulations. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The public offering in Italy of financial products is to be reported to the supervisory authority, and the corresponding prospectuses should be attached. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Italian lira could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. March 28. The Italian authorities notified the IMF that, with effect from March 6 and De- cember 27, 2001, funds and other financial resources of the Taliban and of listed individu- als and organizations involved in terrorism, respectively, were frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar is determined in the domestic foreign exchange market. This market is operated by authorized foreign exchange dealers (ADs), cambios, bureaux de change, and the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). The ADs include all commercial banks, select merchant banks, and the two largest building societies. ADs engage in (1) the purchasing and selling of foreign currency in the form of cash, drafts, traveler's checks, and other instruments; (2) the granting of loans and the taking of deposits; and (3) the making of other international payments. Cambios are allowed to purchase and sell foreign exchange in the form of currency notes, drafts, money orders, and other foreign effects in unlimited amounts. However, unlike ADs, cambios are not permitted to grant loans or accept depos- its. The main function of bureaux de change is the exchange of currency for hotel guests. Effective November 5, 2001, ADs and cambios are required to sell to the BOJ a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 10% of their daily foreign exchange purchases from commercial clients, excluding purchases from ADs, cambios, and the BOJ. Excess foreign exchange may be sold without restrictions to commercial banks, other ADs, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the BOJ. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Surrenders were allowed to be made in one of these three major currencies. Effective October 3, 2001, Ca- nadian dollars and pounds sterling sold by ADs and cambios were surrendered at the previ- ous day's published 10-day moving average selling rates. Effective November 5, 2001, surrenders in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling may be made in U.S. dollars and must be covered at the cross-currency rate derived from their respective weighted-average buy- ing rates in the local market on the day of purchase. Also effective that date, the BOJ is to purchase foreign exchange from ADs and cambios under the following terms: (1) purchases will be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and euros; (2) the minimum amount that the BOJ will purchase in a single transaction is 50,000 units of the foreign currency; and (3) the exchange rates for these currencies will be negotiated by the BOJ. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The market is currently inactive. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an external account or a foreign currency account. Receipts from all countries must be debited to an external account in any foreign currency. Economic agents are free to settle all transactions with domestic currency. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 JAMAICA For current transactions and payments The Jamaica dollar may be used to conduct and settle all current transactions. For capital transactions There are no controls on the use of Jamaican currency to settle capital transactions. Transactions in capital and money market instruments There are no controls on the use of Jamaican currency to settle transactions involving capital and money market instruments. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments There are no controls on the use of Jamaican currency to engage in transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Credit operations There are no controls on the use of domestic currency for credit operations. Use of foreign exchange among residents Exporters and all others with earnings in foreign exchange are free to hold their proceeds in foreign currency accounts locally or abroad and to use the balances to settle any foreign (currency) obligations. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Jamaica is a member of the CARICOM. The clearing arrangements within the framework of the CARICOM have been suspended since November 1, 1990. The BOJ no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector com- mercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial bank- ing sector in convertible currencies. Trading in foreign exchange, other than by and through an AD, is prohibited. The MOF has the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. In accordance with UN sanctions Repayment of the loan from Iraq has been suspended in line with UN sanctions. Payments arrears Private Currently, there is no database on private foreign debt. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, or holding of gold for numismatic or industrial purposes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Funds on these accounts ("A" accounts) may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. In cases when the transferee is a bank, licensed deposit-taking institution, credit union, building society, cambio operator, unit trust, or pension fund, the acquisition of the foreign currency must be in accordance with directives issued by the MOF. External accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale of gold or foreign currencies to an AD. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The Jamaica dollar is not an internationally traded currency. These accounts ("B" accounts) are exempt from tax on interest earned, provided that depos- its are held as certificates of deposit with at least a one-year maturity. After September 22, 1991, new B accounts may not be opened. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 477 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted A accounts held by nonresidents are subject to the regulations that govern those accounts held by residents, but nonresidents are allowed to open tax-free foreign-currency A ac- counts. All credits to these accounts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from the local purchase of foreign exchange. Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing accounts held by residents apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import li- censes, when required, are issued by the Trade Board, which functions under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles require a permit for government statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the BOJ. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 20% for nonagricultural products and 40% for agricultural products, in compliance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET. Some agricultural imports are subject to additional stamp duties of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of entry. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most goods may be exported without restriction. However, specific licenses are required for exports of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique fur- niture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 JAMAICA Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities n.r. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to ministerial approval; a prospectus is required under the Companies Act. For banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds, the purchase must be in accordance with direc- tions issued by the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases apply. On collective investment securities Ministerial approval is required for banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. No. No. No. No. n.r. All deposit accounts, whether held by residents or nonresidents, are treated alike. Mutual fund schemes must be approved by the Securities Commission. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are no maximum limits on the amount of securities that may be issued by nonresi- dents. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The minimum to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance must not exceed 70% of the domestic liabilities of the company. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking institutions may be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonresident companies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give investment advice. Nonresident companies must be owned, controlled, or supervised by persons who are citizens of, and are actually residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM states, as may be prescribed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange arrangement JAMAICA 479 Changes During 2001 October 3. Canadian dollars and pounds sterling sold by authorized dealers and cambios were to be surrendered at their previous day's published 10-day moving average selling rates. November 5. The BOJ was to purchase foreign exchange from authorized dealers and cam- bios under the following terms: (1) purchases will be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dol- lars, pounds sterling, and euros; (2) the minimum amount that the BOJ will purchase in a single transaction is 50,000 units of the foreign currency; and (3) the exchange rates for these currencies will be negotiated by the BOJ. November 5. Surrenders in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling were allowed to be made in U.S. dollars and had to be covered at the cross-currency rate derived from the respective weighted average buying rates in the local market on the day of purchase. The surrender rates for these three currencies were set as the weighted average selling rate of the previous day. November 5. Authorized dealers and cambios were required to surrender to the BOJ a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 10% of their daily gross foreign exchange purchases from commercial clients, excluding purchases from authorized dealers, cambios, or the BOJ. Surrenders were allowed to be made in one of the three major currencies—U.S. dol- lars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 1, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. The principal intervention currency is the dollar. No. No. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) acting as the government's agent. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the METI. On March 29, 2002, Japan notified the IMF that a series of measures had been taken to freeze funds and other assets of the Taliban, individuals and entities associated with the Taliban, and terrorist organizations in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Payments related to imports from, and exports to, Iraq require permission from the METI. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola requires permission from the METI. Permission from the MOF is required for payments through Japan to for- eign countries by residents of Angola and Iraq and to the Taliban and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures JAPAN 481 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The Import Restriction System covers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity De- scription and Coding System, HS base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the WTO. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authorization from the METI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from a bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the METI. Import settlements effected under the special methods require authorization from the METI. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. Twenty-seven export cartels are operat- ing under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items are-subject to a license to control their exportation to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 JAPAN and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the METI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign proc- essing and reimportation require individual licenses. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Outward direct investments by residents in a limited number of industries, such as the manufacture of arms, require prior notice. Inward direct investments by foreign investors in a limited number of industries, such as the manufacture of arms, require prior notice. No. No. No. There is (1) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency- denominated bonds, excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents, equivalent to 30% of their net worth; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign currency- denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. The limits are (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies holding securities issued by nonresidents; (2) the same ratio that applies to purchases of foreign currency-denom- inated assets; (3) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for holding by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds; and (4) 30% of pension trust assets for foreign currency- denominated assets purchased by pension funds deposited before April 1,1990, and 50% ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 483 Other controls imposed by securities laws thereafter, on the basis of each institutional account, with the ceiling for foreign-affiliated companies being 70%. Yes. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 29. Japan notified the IMF that a series of measures had been taken to freeze funds and other assets of the Taliban, individuals and entities associated with the Taliban, and terrorist organizations in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20,1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordanian dinar. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate but are available to residents and nonresidents. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The dinar is officially pegged to the SDR, but in practice it has been pegged to the dollar since late 1995. The difference between the CBJ's buying and selling rates is 0.3%. No. No. Licensed banks may buy an unlimited amount of foreign currency against dinars from their customers on a forward deal basis, and they may sell foreign currencies against dinars to their customers on a forward deal basis to pay for imports into Jordan. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. There is an arrangement with the Syrian Arab Republic. No. No. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 485 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts Yes. For statistical purposes, proof of domicile is required when nonresident accounts are opened. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. This comprises imports of certain goods that are prohibited for national security considerations. Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum tariff rate is 30%. Customs duties are levied at a single rate. State import monopoly Oil imports are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses for exports are not required, except for exports to countries that have bilateral agreements with Jordan. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 JORDAN Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. No. No. Controls on credit operations There are no controls on these transactions, except for exposure limits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Nonresident investments are limited to a maximum of 49% ownership or 50% subscription in shares in the following major sectors: commerce and trade services, construction, con- tracting, and transportation. The amount of investment in any one project must total at least JD 50,000. Investments in the following sectors are not permitted for nonresidents: investi- gation and security, quarrying and mining, waste removal, sport clubs, and transportation of goods and passengers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions These transactions are allowed only if reciprocal agreements exist. Cabinet approval must be obtained. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is illegal in Jordan, but the transfer of prize earnings is not restricted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. Lending locally in foreign exchange Licensed banks are permitted to lend up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are no controls except for foreign exchange exposure limits. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are no regulations on the issuance of these securities, but portfolio investments are not restricted. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There are no controls, except for foreign exposure limits. Other controls imposed by securities laws Except for the sectoral controls described under direct investments, there are no other controls. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 16, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakhstan! tenge. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The exchange rate of the tenge is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market, and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK) inter- venes only occasionally. The official exchange rate of the tenge against the dollar is set on the basis of an assessment of the general macroeconomic situation (e.g., inflation rate and monetary aggregate indicators); transactions in the foreign exchange market (e.g., trading sessions on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange—KASE—and information about transactions in the over-the-counter market); and the level of short-term rates on deposits, credits, NBK notes, and repo rates. The rates for other currencies are set indirectly on the basis of cross rates in international markets. The official exchange rates of the tenge against foreign cur- rencies—which are used for the accounting of customs and tax payments—are determined once a week and are announced each Monday by the NBK. The accounting policy of the NBK and the regulations on second-tier banks was changed in 2001, and since then the market exchange rate for the tenge, determined on the basis of exchange trading sessions, is used in the accounting of banking transactions. The NBK has increased open-market operations to regulate the domestic currency market. The currency market includes the KASE, which conducts daily trading in online mode using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter interbank market, and a network of exchange bureaus handling foreign exchange cash transactions. Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. Banks may also trade in an over-the-counter interbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are more than 2,400 exchange bureaus that conduct foreign exchange cash transactions. Effective May 23, 2001, the 1% customs duty on the foreign exchange value of cash imports by juridical persons was eliminated. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Foreign exchange futures are quoted on the KASE. Forward exchange operations are also conducted in the interbank market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions between residents and nonresidents may be made in any currency as long as they comply with the requirements of foreign exchange regulations. The NBK has the right to impose restrictions on the currency of receipt for a resident's export operations. Natural persons may use foreign currency in Kazakhstan only for exchange transactions through authorized banks and authorized organizations carrying out particular kinds of banking operations. Foreign currency may be kept in foreign exchange accounts, trans- ferred abroad, or used for settlements for goods and services sold by juridical persons possessing the appropriate NBK license. Effective March 14, 2002, the acquisition of foreign currency is permitted for settlements with nonresidents under contracts providing for the LC form of settlement for the entire period that the LC is valid. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 KAZAKHSTAN Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Transfers of foreign exchange assets from residents to nonresidents (including transactions in tenge between residents and nonresidents) are subject to NBK licensing. Settlements of tenge credits, interest payments, and other related payments in foreign exchange are prohibited except for settlements between residents and nonresidents. Use of foreign exchange among residents All transactions between residents must be effected in tenge, unless otherwise stipulated by law. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. The NBK establishes the procedures for exchange transactions and monitors compliance therewith; supervises authorized banks and authorized institutions carrying out certain types of banking operations; regulates open foreign exchange positions; and has the author- ity to introduce restrictions on the currency of receipt for export operations performed by residents. For the purpose of fulfilling international obligations, the president of Kazakhstan reserves the right to introduce restrictions on any foreign exchange operation. The MOF monitors the contracting of government and government-guaranteed external debt. The Ministry of Economy and Trade supervises the licensing of a limited number of imports and exports and monitors transactions in precious metals and stones. The Ministry of State Revenue supervises the payment of export and import duties. Authorized banks and authorized institutions carrying out certain types of banking operations serve as agents for foreign exchange control. No. No. The refined precious metals market has been liberalized and there are no specific restric- tions on the export of refined precious metals. Control over the foreign trade of refined precious metals, however, is maintained in the same manner as that applied to other goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On November 9,2001, a government decree (No. 1669) and an NBK resolution (No. 343) were issued, unifying all procedures for currency control. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Domestic currency may be exported without restriction. Effective July 18, 2001, resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $10,000 (previously $3,000) without documents certifying the legal origin of the funds. Also from that date, documents must be presented to customs authorities for amounts exceeding $10,000 (previously for the entire amount). The export of foreign cur- rency by nonresident natural persons must be carried out in accordance with the declaration prepared by them at the time of entry. In the event that the amount being exported is more than the amount indicated in the declaration, the nonresident is required to present docu- ments certifying the legal origin of the funds. Effective May 23, 2001, a 1% customs duty equivalent on imports of foreign currency by juridical persons was eliminated. Nonresidents entering Kazakhstan are required to declare the imported amount of foreign exchange. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Effective March 14, 2002, residents are required to open these accounts within six months after receiving a license from the NBK. Also effective that date, resident juridical persons are permitted to deposit foreign currency into special accounts opened by them at an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Approval required Held abroad Approval required KAZAKHSTAN 489 authorized bank for purposes of effecting payments and transfers of funds under a private external loan that was obtained against a government guarantee. An NBK license is required. Yes. A license from the NBK is required, with the exception of resident natural persons tempo- rarily located abroad (e.g., for purposes of work, study, or medical treatment, or for hu- manitarian reasons). Effective March 14, 2002, a license is required for residents to open an account at a foreign bank. The license is granted only if the resident is not in arrears to a domestic bank. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency All domestic currency accounts are convertible; however, resident juridical persons may acquire foreign currency in the domestic currency market only for purposes specified in the legislation, which was extended on January 1, 2001. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Prior to July 18, 2001, when this restriction was lifted, nonresident juridical persons could acquire foreign currency on the domestic foreign exchange market only to pay for expenses in tenge resulting from current foreign exchange transactions. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list All goods imported into Kazakhstan must be equal in value to the amount paid for them. If the goods are not delivered, the importer must refund the money that had been previously transferred within the period established in the contract, but no later than 120 days after the date of the transfer, unless stipulated otherwise in the NBK license. A license from the NBK is required for prepayments made more than 120 days in advance. A deferment of payment for a period exceeding 180 days and for an amount exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. A transaction passport must be compiled for each import transaction in excess of the equivalent of $5,000, and the import transaction must be monitored by the customs authori- ties and an authorized bank until completion. Effective July 1, 2001, deferments of import payments for a period exceeding 120 days must be registered with the NBK. Effective March 14, 2002, import transactions involving transfers of funds not exceeding the equiva- lent of $5,000 are exempt from NBK licensing. Import licenses are required for 12 categories of goods. Effective January 30, 2001, changes were made to the list of goods requiring a license. On March 14,2002, deadlines were established for residents to apply to the NBK for licenses to perform import transac- tions involving transfers of funds. There is a list of goods that require an import license, and a list of goods that require a li- cense that is issued with governmental approval. On the basis of the Lists of the 1961 Sin- gle Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and trie 1988 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which Kazakhstan signed in 1997, a list has been established of narcotic drugs, psychotro- pic substances and their precursors, and poisonous substances that are subject to controls. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 KAZAKHSTAN Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs There is also a list of multicomponent medicines containing small quantities of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and their precursors that are not subject to controls. A quota has been established for imports of crushing, forged, and other metallic balls in the amount of 3,000 metric tons through end-2002, and a license is required for these imports. A quota has also been established for imports of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products (other than beer) in the amount of 20% of their annual output, and a license is required for their imports. Imports are subject to VAT, at the rate of 16%; to excise taxes, if domestically produced goods are also subject thereto; and to customs charges. Interim safeguard import duties were introduced on imports of certain goods for the construction and oil industries (barium sulfate, roofing materials, tools for drilling rock and rocky soil, etc.), effective July 3, 2000 (for two years). On July 14, 2001, safeguard import duties were introduced for wallpaper (for two years). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds in foreign exchange must be credited to the resident's accounts in Kazakh- stan or to accounts abroad if the appropriate license has been obtained from the NBK. Re- ceipts of export proceeds are monitored to ensure that they are received in full and in a timely manner. The NBK reserves the right to introduce surrender requirements at any time. No. Export payment deferments for periods exceeding 120 days must be licensed by, and those exceeding 180 days or valued at more than the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with, the BNK. Effective July 10, 2001, the registration requirement period was reduced to 120 days. A transaction passport must be compiled for each export transaction above $5,000 or its equivalent, and the transaction must be monitored by the customs authorities and an author- ized bank until fu ll completion. Export licenses are required for 21 categories of goods. Effective March 14, 2001, exports involving transfers of funds equivalent to $5,000 or less are exempt from NBK licensing requirements. On that same date, deadlines were established for residents to apply for the NBK for export licenses involving transfers of capital. There is a list of exports that require a license, as well as a list of exports that require a license that is granted with governmental approval. There is a list of goods that require an export license in accordance with international obligations of Kazakhstan. There is a list of goods that are subject to export customs duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments made by residents to nonresidents require the presentation of supporting docu- ments (contract, agreement, accord, etc.) to an authorized bank. For payments involving foreign exchange transactions that require a license or registration certificate from the NBK, resident juridical persons are also required to present copies of the relevant docu- ments to an authorized bank. Effective July 18, 2001, current transfers of the equivalent of $10,000 or less by resident and nonresident natural persons may be effected through an authorized bank without opening an account or presenting documentation. Effective March 9, 2002, foreign exchange transactions by natural persons in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be registered (previously, a transaction certificate had to be submitted for transactions exceeding the equivalent of $500). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Quantitative limits KAZAKHSTAN 491 When reinsuring with a nonresident insurance (reinsurance) company, the proportion of the liability retained by the resident insurance (reinsurance) company must represent at least 5% of the total amount of liability. The maximum liability of an insurance (reinsurance) company under an individual agreement may not exceed 10% of the company's equity capital and insurance reserves. A domestic resident insurance (reinsurance) company may assign insurance risks outside Kazakhstan for reinsurance to a nonresident reinsurance company directly or through a nonresident insurance broker if the company possesses a specific rating from one of the rating agencies. (A list of rating agencies and their minimum ratings has been established by an authorized state body.) The total amount of insurance premiums paid by the assignor to nonresident reinsurance organizations, less commissions received from them by the assignor, must not exceed 85% of the total amount of insurance premiums received under insurance agreements (with con- sideration for those paid by reinsurance organizations) within a fu ll fiscal year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Settlements of payments of interest and dividends are treated as current transactions. In- vestment operations are subject to licensing or registration as operations connected with capital transactions. Repayment of loans, amortization of direct investments, and payment of rent on real estate are subject to licensing or registration. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence for the validity of the payments must be submitted. Payments for travel Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Resident and nonresident juridical persons are entitled to withdraw funds from their foreign exchange accounts to pay expenses connected with travel of a juridical person's employees on foreign business trips. Current foreign exchange transactions in the form of onetime transfers by resident and non- resident natural persons in an amount up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be effected through authorized banks without opening an account and/or presenting supporting docu- ments. For transfers in excess of this amount without the relevant documents and totaling more than $50,000 in a given month, a bank is required to provide information to the NBK regarding the person in question and the transactions performed. Resident and nonresident juridical persons are entitled to withdraw resources from their foreign exchange accounts to pay wages to nonresidents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards in foreign trade operations and foreign exchange transactions that are subject to licensing is prohibited. The posting or withdrawal of funds in foreign ex- change by a resident juridical person to or from a credit card account is permitted only for purposes of paying business travel and foreign representation expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds There are no restrictions on conversion into domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 KAZAKHSTAN Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The purchase of securities from nonresidents by residents is subject to prior NBK licensing. Subsequent transactions involving stocks between residents are classified as trading and are subject to BNK clearance procedures. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of stock from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Sale or issue abroad by residents Investments of funds exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 in foreign enterprises that involve issues of stocks require an NBK license and NBK registration. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The purchase by residents of bonds from nonresidents is subject to NBK licensing. Subse- quent sales of bonds between residents are classified as trading and are subject to NBK clearance procedures. Effective February 13,2001, bonds issued by international financial institutions (IFIs) are exempt, and the trading of these bonds in Kazakhstan does not require clearance. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase by residents of bonds of nonresidents is subject to licensing by the NBK, with the exception of brokerage and dealer activities by authorized banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Prior NBK notification of the forthcoming issue and presentation of its prospectus and a report on the outcome are required. An investment of funds in an enterprise abroad that involve issues of stocks requires a license from the NBK and registration with the NBK when the sale exceeds the equivalent of $100,000. Requirements on licensing by or registration with the NBK apply only when these instru- ments are treated as securities and when the payment on a bill of exchange is deferred for a period in excess of 120 days. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK, with the exception of purchases of domestic government securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases of securities from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Pur- chases of bills of exchange from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing when the payment is deferred for a period in excess of 120 days. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Investments abroad that involve issues of instruments require an NBK license and NBK registration when the sale exceeds the equivalent of $100,000. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply to all collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Derivative instruments of nonresidents must be approved by the NBK for domestic trading. The procedure for their trading in the organized securities market is regulated by the KASE rules for exchange trading. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 493 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents A license from the NBK is required for operations with a maturity of more than 120 days. To residents from nonresidents Effective July 10, 2001, a registration certificate from the NBK is required for operations with a maturity of more than 120 days (previously 180 days) and a value exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. Effective March 14, 2002, the following are exempt from NBK licensing requirements: (1) government and government-guaranteed credits in foreign cur- rency that are to be received from a nonresident through the account of a third party and (2) credits not guaranteed by the government that are contracted for financing export- import transactions insured by foreign government export credit agencies. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents A license from the NBK is required for operations with a maturity of more than 120 days. To residents from nonresidents Effective July 10, 2001, a registration certificate from the NBK is required for credits with a maturity of more than 120 days (previously 180 days) and in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. An NBK license is required in order for credit extended to a resi- dent by a nonresident to be loaned to a third party. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Guarantees or sureties with a maturity of more than 120 days must be licensed or registered as an operation connected with the extension or acquisition of credit. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Transfer of assets Residents must obtain a license from the NBK to invest abroad. A certificate of registration from the NBK is required for residents to solicit foreign investments in excess of the equivalent of $100,000. Reinvestments do not require repatriation or licensing. Transfers of funds from residents to nonresidents for real estate are subject to NBK licensing. Transfers of funds in excess of $100,000 from nonresidents to residents for purchases of real estate are subject to NBK registration. The sale of real estate to a resident by a nonresident on the local market in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 requires an NBK registration certificate. Credits by residents to nonresidents in foreign currency for a term of more than 120 days are subject to licensing with the NBK. Effective July 10, 2001, credits by nonresidents to residents for a term of more than 120 days (previously 180 days) and in an amount equivalent to more than $100,000 are subject to registration with the NBK. Foreign currency received by resident juridical persons in noncash form as a gift, endowment, charitable contribution, or other income must be deposited in an account at an authorized bank. For controls on foreign exchange transactions, distinctions are made between residents and nonresidents, not between nationals, immigrants, and emigrants. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transfers are subject to documentation requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 KAZAKHSTAN Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Effective July 10, 2001, registration with the NBK is required to receive credits for a term of more than 120 days (previously 120 days) and in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. An NBK-issued banking license is required to open a correspondent account. An NBK license allowing the opening of accounts abroad is required to open accounts for representative offices of banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A license from the NBK is required when extending credit for a term of more than 120 days. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized banks are permitted to provide credits in foreign currency to resident and nonresident juridical persons only in noncash form. Foreign exchange settlement of credits received in tenge and their remuneration are prohibited, except in cases where these settlements are effected between residents and nonresidents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Payments by residents may be effected only in tenge, regardless of the currency in which the securities are denominated. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Investments abroad by resident banks are limited by the ratio set for the placement of eq- uity capital in domestic assets. Bank investments are subject to licensing by the NBK. Banks are prohibited from performing operations and transactions not related to banking and from participating in the authorized capital of juridical persons, except in the following cases: (1) participation by banks in the authorized capital of banks, private pension savings funds, pension asset management companies, investment funds, insurance companies, leas- ing companies, and juridical persons whose stocks are listed on the stock exchange (in an amount that does not exceed 15% of the total number of stocks issued by a single issuer); (2) participation by banks in the authorized capital of juridical persons that are part of the financial market infrastructure and/or are engaged in automation of the activities of banks and institutions performing certain types of banking operations; (3) participation by banks in the authorized capital of organizations engaged in professional activity in the securities market; (4) participation by banks in the authorized capital of juridical persons in those cases in which stocks of these organizations accepted as collateral become the property of the banks in accordance with the terms of the security agreement, before they are sold by the banks; (5) activities related to management of the property and affairs of insolvent debtors in bankruptcy proceedings; and (6) the performance of transactions with bonds of juridical persons whose securities are listed on the stock exchange. Representative offices of nonresident banks may be opened with the consent of the NBK. The opening of branches of foreign banks in Kazakhstan is prohibited. The opening of a subsidiary nonresident bank and the acquisition of more than 50% of the stocks of a resi- dent bank by a nonresident bank is possible, provided that the nonresident bank's represen- tative office has been in operation domestically for one year or longer. Nonresident juridical persons, including banks, that acquire 5% or more of the stocks of a resident bank, and nonresident banks establishing or possessing subsidiary banks in Ka- zakhstan, must have a minimum required rating that is not below the rating awarded to Kazakhstan by one of the international rating agencies. This requirement also applies to acquisition of more than 50% of the stocks of a resident bank by nonresident banks. The following requirements must be observed in the creation and activity of banks with foreign participation: (1) The total announced authorized capital of banks with foreign participation may not exceed 50% of the total announced authorized capital of all Kazakhstani banks, except in cases permitted by the NBK. (2) At least one member of the supervisory board of a bank with foreign participation must be a citizen of Kazakhstan who has worked in an executive capacity for not less than three years in a bank operating in Kazakhstan and have knowledge of Kazakhstani banking and business legislation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 495 (3) A bank with foreign participation is required to place resources in domestic assets in an amount and in accordance with procedures established by the NBK —the list of domestic assets is established by the NBK. The NBK has the right to impose additional requirements on banks with foreign participa- tion with respect to the makeup of their governing bodies, the list of banking operations they may perform, prudential standards, other binding rules and limits, and reporting pro- cedures. Juridical persons registered in offshore zones or having affiliated persons registered in off- shore zones, or natural persons who are participants (founders, shareholders) of juridical persons registered in offshore zones, the list of which is established by the NBK, may not be founders or shareholders of resident banks. A nonresident bank that is the founder of or participant in a bank is required to submit, in addition to other necessary documents, written confirmation from a bank supervisory body of the relevant state that the bank possesses a current banking license and that the bank is subject to supervision on a consolidated basis. A nonresident juridical or natural person who is a founder of a bank is required to append to an application for a permit to open a bank —in addition to other necessary documents— (1) information on the participation of the bank in the authorized capital of other banks and financial organizations and (2) a written statement from an authorized body (for nonresi- dent banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant state to the effect that the person is allowed to participate in the authorized capital of a Kazakhstani resident bank or a state- ment from an authorized body (for nonresident banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant state to the effect that such permission is not required by law in the state of this founder. The (long or short) foreign exchange limit may not be more than 30% of a bank's equity capital; the net foreign exchange position limit is 50% of a bank's equity capital; and the long foreign exchange position limit for currencies of non-OECD member countries is 5% of a bank's equity capital. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Pension asset management companies may obtain a general license to perform transactions involving transfers of capital that entail the transfer of foreign exchange assets from resi- dents to nonresidents. Effective June 25, 2001, the maximum investment of pension assets in nongovernmental securities of foreign issuers with a rating of no lower than AA or A2 is 15%. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Pension asset-management companies may place the pension assets of private pension savings funds under their investment management in the following instruments in the fol- lowing amounts: (1) not more than 10% of the pension assets of each separate nonstate funded pension fund may be held in IFI securities and (2) not more than 10% of the pension assets of each separate nonstate funded pension fund may be held in nongovernment securi- ties of foreign issuers. The state-funded pension fund has a right to place up to 10% of the total volume of pension assets in MOF securities. Pension asset-management companies are required to place not less than 40% of the pen- sion assets of each separate nonstate funded pension fund under investment management in Kazakhstani government securities (including ones issued in compliance with legislation of other states), except for securities issued by local executive bodies of Kazakhstan. The state-funded pension fund is subject to the same regulations, with the exception that the limit is not less than 50% of total pension assets. A license is required to conduct professional activities on the securities market, to operate a stock exchange, and to operate as a self-regulating organization of professional participants in the securities market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 KAZAKHSTAN Arrangements for payments and receipts May 23. A 1% customs duty equivalent on imports of foreign currency by juridical persons was eliminated. Changes During 2001 July 18. Resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $10,000 (previously $3,000) without documents certifying the legal origin of the funds, but documents must be presented to customs authorities for exports of amounts exceeding $10,000 (previously for the entire amount). November 9. A government decree (No. 1669) and an NBK resolution (No. 343) were issued, unifying all procedures for currency control. January 1. The list stipulating the transactions for which resident juridical persons may buy foreign exchange on the domestic foreign exchange market was extended. July 18. Access of nonresident juridical persons to foreign exchange markets was no longer limited to purposes of acquiring foreign currency to pay for expenses in tenge resulting from current foreign exchange transactions. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments January 30. Changes were made to the list of goods requiring import licenses. Exports and export proceeds July 1. Deferments of import payments for a period exceeding 120 days were required to be registered with the NBK July 14. Safeguard import duties were introduced for wallpaper (for two years). March 14. Exports involving transfers of funds equivalent to $5,000 or less were exempted from NBK licensing requirements. July 10. Deferments of export receipts (including advanced receipts) for a period exceeding 120 days (previously 180 days) were required to be registered with the NBK. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 18. Current transfers of the equivalent of $10,000 or less by resident and nonresident natural persons were permitted to be effected through an authorized bank without opening an account or presenting documentation. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations February 13. Bonds issued by IFIs were exempt from the requirements governing the sale of issue of bonds locally by nonresidents, and the trading of these bonds in Kazakhstan does not require clearance. July 10. The maximum maturity for operations exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 in value for which an NBK registration certificate is not required was shortened to 120 days from 180 days. Provisions specific to institutional investors June 25. The maximum investment of pension assets in nongovernmental securities of foreign issuers with a rating of no lower than AA or A2 was set at 15%. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Changes During 2002 March 14. The acquisition of foreign currency was permitted for settlements with nonresi- dents under contracts providing for the LC form of settlement for the entire period that the LC is valid. March 14. A time limit of six months was established for the opening of an account at a foreign bank by a resident after obtaining an NBK license. March 14. Resident juridical persons were permitted to deposit foreign currency into spe- cial accounts opened by them at authorized banks to effect payments and fund transfers under a private external loan that is obtained against a government guarantee. March 14. A license could be issued to a resident to open accounts at a foreign bank only if the resident is not in arrears to authorized banks of Kazakhstan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 497 Imports and import payments March 14. Import transactions involving transfers of funds not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 were exempted from NBK licensing. Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on credit operations March 14. Deadlines were established for residents to apply to the NBK for licenses to perform import transactions involving transfers of funds. March 14. Deadlines were established for residents to apply to the NBK for licenses to perform export transactions involving transfers of capital. March 14. Export transactions involving transfers of funds not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 were exempted from NBK licensing. March 9. Foreign exchange transactions by natural persons in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 were required to be registered. Previously, a transaction certificate had to be submitted for transactions exceeding the equivalent of $500. March 14. The following were made exempt from licensing: government and government- guaranteed credits that are to be received in foreign currency from a nonresident through the accounts of third parties and credits not guaranteed by the government that are con- tracted for financing export-import transactions insured by foreign government export credit agencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kenya is the Kenya shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign traveler's checks. The official exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate. The dollar is the principal intervention currency. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government-guaranteed exter- nal debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Kenya is a member of COMESA, the EAC, and RIFF. The Central Bank Act gives the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 499 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures A copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, and a copy of the customs entry must be submitted. An inspection is required for all imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $5,000 or its equivalent. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a clean report of findings. Banks are allowed to effect clean payments (for imports) pro- vided they obtain a pledge from the importer to submit the documents at a later date. Negative list The list includes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respec- tively. Exports of certain foods and agricultural products require special licenses to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 KENYA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase a maximum of 40% of shares of primary or secon- dary issues. A nonresident may not purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or primary issues. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There is no control on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, the issue of securi- ties by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior CBK approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure may not exceed 20% of an institution's core capital. KENYA 501 On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Kiribati is the Australian dollar. A small number of Kiribati coins is also in circulation. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes daily rates for 15 currencies on the basis of their respective rates against the Australian dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The BOK provides forward contracts of up to three months of maturity. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in any currency. Purchases and sales of for- eign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with the BOK, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Kiribati participates in PACER and PICTA. No. No. No. Only authorized dealers are permitted to own or trade in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI 503 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. n.r. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. No. No. n.r. Negative list Imports of some goods are prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. n.r. Export licenses Export taxes Copra may be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds n.r. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 KIRIBATI Controls on capital transactions These transactions are covered by the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all of these transactions. There are controls on all of these transactions. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all of these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment The authorities encourage investments in the export-promoting or import-substituting sec- tors. All applications for foreign investment up to $A 250,000 must be submitted to the Foreign Investment Commission for approval. Applications with a larger capital contribu- tion are subject to cabinet approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.r. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase land or real estate. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Legislation related to banking and prudential regulations related to lending and financial institutions are currently being formulated. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Korea is the Korean won. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the won is determined on the basis of supply and demand. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between the won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency except the won. Nonresidents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For this purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for current transactions as well as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic securities. No. The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes the policies governing most of the above functions. Effective October 9, 2001, in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, financial transactions with individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism are pro- hibited unless approved by the BOK. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to import and export gold except for gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade. Effective January 1, 2001, exports of domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 require BOK approval. Effective January 1, 2001, exports of foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be made freely; exports in excess of $10,000 and up to $50,000 require customs notification; and amounts in excess of $50,000 require notification to the BOK. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 REPUBLIC OF KOREA On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Upon leaving Korea, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency up to $10,000 or the amount they have sold during their stay in Korea. BOK approval is necessary for amounts in excess of these limits. Residents and nonresidents must notify the customs office if the amount of domestic currency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Residents and nonresidents must notify the customs office if the amount of foreign currency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed without restriction. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification pur- poses without a quantitative ceiling. Prior to January 1, 2001, general corporations and individuals were permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to the equivalents of $5 million and $50,000 a year, respectively. On that date, these limits were eliminated, but the BOK must be notified of overseas remittances by individuals that exceed $50,000 a day or its equivalent. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Nonresident Accounts Remittances from these accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. Remittances from nonresident free won accounts may be made freely, but remittances abroad from nonresident domestic currency accounts require notification to the BOK. Effective January 1, 2001, the establishment of such deposits and trust accounts of less than a one-year maturity no longer requires BOK permission. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list No. No. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 507 Open general licenses Prior to January 1, 2001, when this was abolished, eight ten-digit items in the Harmonized System were subject to licenses. Licenses with quotas Quantitative import restrictions on rice exist. Other nontariff measures The Korea Trade Commission may recommend quotas as a safeguard measure if it has determined that increases in certain imports have seriously harmed domestic industries. About 4,000 products are subject to special import approval procedures, mostly for health and other reasons, under the regulation on import notices. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are adjustment tariffs on 23 products. There are antidumping duties on 8 products. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopoly There is a state monopoly on the import of 18 agricultural products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export earnings exceeding $50,000 or its equivalent must be repatriated to Korea within six months of receipt. Effective January 1, 2001, export earnings may be used for overseas transactions as long as their use adheres to the foreign exchange transaction regulations. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are export bans for environmental reasons on 13 six-digit items from the Harmonized System. There are quotas under the ATC and voluntary restraint on four six-digit Harmonized System items. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance was subject to prior approval. Effective January 1, 2001, these transfers require only BOK notification. Prior to January 1, 2001, the monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days was the equivalent of $10,000; for those staying abroad over one year, a remit- tance of $50,000 (including basic travel allowances) was allowed within two months after the time of departure. Effective January 1, 2001, the limit on payments for travel was eliminated. However, payments for travel or remittances to students exceeding $100,000 a transaction or its equivalent must be reported to the BOK, and those that exceed $100,000 a year must be reported to the tax authorities. Prior to January 1, 2001, when these limits were eliminated, residents traveling abroad were allowed, in general, to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a trip as their basic travel allowance; additional foreign exchange could also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. Effective January 1, 2001, residents may remit abroad any amount, but remittances abroad exceeding $100,000 for education purposes or exceeding $50,000 for personal payments must be reported to the BOK. Prior to that date, the basic monthly allowance for students ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits under 20 years old was $3,000, and for students with a dependent family, an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and $500 for each child was allowed. Further, residents were allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children living abroad for living expenses and to their relatives abroad for wedding gifts or funeral donations, with no restrictions on the number of remittances. Effective January 1, 2001, the regulations on payments abroad by credit cards were abol- ished. Prior to that date, residents were allowed to make payments abroad by credit card for expenditures relating to travel and tourism, but for amounts exceeding $5,000 a month, the authenticity of the payments had to be verified by the foreign exchange authorities. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Previously, proceeds from invisible transactions in excess of the equivalent of $50,000 were to be repatriated to Korea within six months of accrual. Effective January 1, 2001, repatriated funds may subsequently be used for overseas transactions as long as they adhere to the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions are based on a negative list system. Proceeds from capital transactions in excess of $50,000 or its equivalent must be repatriated to Korea within six months of accrual. Effective January 1,2001, these repatriated funds may subsequently be used for overseas transactions as long as they adhere to the regulations on foreign ex- change transactions. Nonresidents may borrow stocks from residents up to the value of W 5 billion through brokerage houses without approval from or reporting to the authorities. Foreign institutions are eligible to list their shares on the Korean Stock Exchange (KSE) in the form of depositary receipts. These institutions include international financial organi- zations, central or municipal governments, public organizations, and general companies. Foreign institutions may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. However, the issuer must submit a prior report to the MOFE and the Financial Supervisory Council (FSC). The sale or issuance of foreign currency-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to a designated foreign exchange bank. The sale or issuance of won-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the MOFE. Only the issuance of won-denominated securities with a maturity of less than one year requires MOFE approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of short-term securities abroad denominated in won require BOK approval (prior to January 1, 2001, MOFE approval). Sale or issue abroad by residents There are ho controls for foreign exchange banks to issue money market instruments de- nominated in foreign currency in foreign money markets. Sales or issuances of foreign currency-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the designated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 509 foreign exchange bank. Only issues by enterprises with unsound financial structures require MOFE approval. Residents may issue money market instruments denominated in won in the foreign money markets with the approval of the MOFE. Foreign institutions may issue collective investment securities in the domestic market, pro- vided that they establish themselves in Korea. However, this is not required for the issue of collective investment securities by foreign investment trust companies that invest their funds exclusively in foreign securities. In the case of the issue of collective investment securities, the issuer must submit a prior report to the FSC. According to the Foreign Exchange Transaction Regulation, residents may issue collective investment securities denominated in foreign currency in foreign markets. However, the issuer must submit a prior report to the designated exchange bank. Residents may issue collective investment securities denominated in domestic currency in foreign markets with the approval of the MOFE. According to the Securities Investment Trust Company Act, the deed must be approved by the FSC. There are no controls on the trading of over the counter-related derivatives if the transac- tions are made through domestic foreign exchange banks. However, transactions in credit derivatives with domestic foreign exchange banks and those directly related to specific capital transactions require BOK notification only.ttther transactions in derivatives require BOK approval. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on all derivative transactions by nonresidents involving the use of won- denominated financing. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Commercial credits in domestic currency of more than W 100 million a borrower that are granted by institutional investors require MOFE approval. Effective January 1, 2001, this limit was raised to W 1 billion. In addition, commercial credits in foreign currency granted by general trading companies of more than $10 million or its equivalent, and by other en- terprises of more than $300,000, require BOK approval. To residents from nonresidents Only commercial credits with maturities of one year or less granted to enterprises with unsound financial structures require MOFE approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits and loans denominated in domestic currency of more than W 100 million a bor- rower require MOFE approval. Effective January 1, 2001, this limit was raised to W 1 bil- lion, and the approval authority was changed to the BOK. To residents from nonresidents Only financial credits with a maturity of one year or less granted to enterprises with unsound financial structures require MOFE approval. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Residents, other than banks, must obtain approval from the BOK, except for the following cases: (1) when a foreign importer is granted an offshore loan by a foreign exchange bank to finance imports from a resident, and said resident pledges a guarantee in foreign cur- rency; (2) when a resident concludes a contract guaranteeing performance or bearing re- sponsibility for the liabilities assumed by the nonresident, who in turn is providing a guar- antee, such as bid bonds or other sureties, related to international bids or contracts entered into by a resident; and (3) when residents provide guarantees to serve as collateral for spot financing. There are no controls on the provision of underwritten backup facilities by domestic institutional investors when they participate in an international underwriting syndicate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Under current regulations, notification to a foreign exchange bank is required. However, investments in excess of $10 million or its equivalent require prior notification to the MOFE when (1) the liabilities of the parent company exceed its total assets, i.e., it has negative net worth; or (2) the subsidiary had a negative net worth greater than $100 million, or half of its capital, or shows a continuous five-year deficit, excluding the accounting year when the business started to operate. Equity participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in newly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is also allowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enterprise, approval from the FSC is required for financial institutions; notification to foreign ex- change banks is required for nonfmancial institutions and for the establishment of an office. Investments in public utilities, radio, and television are restricted. Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a negative list, including about 0.2% of all industries listed in the Korean standard industrial classification. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no controls on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privi- leges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that involve advanced technology. Post- investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are subject to a notification requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by a foreign exchange bank unless it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Acquisition of real estate necessary to the business activities of enterprises require BOK approval. However, neither approval nor notification is required for the acquisition of overseas real estate by foreign exchange banks or residents if given as gifts or through inheritance from nonresidents. Effective January 1, 2001, notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate and its associated rights other than real estate acquired from nonresidents. How- ever, the acquisition of real estate with imported funds requires notification to a foreign exchange bank. No controls apply if the real estate was acquired in compliance with foreign exchange regulations. Effective January 1, 2001, loans of up to $300,000 or its equivalent by a corporation must be reported to the BOK. Loans exceeding this limit require BOK approval. Previously, these loans required MOFE approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective January 1, 2001, transactions exceeding $5,000 only require BOK notification. Previously, such transactions had to be approved by the BOK. Effective January 1, 2001, the ceiling for emigration settlement expenses was abolished and replaced with a bank reporting system. Previously, the limits on these transactions were $400,000 for a head of household and $200,000 a person for members of a household. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 5 11 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are prudential regulations on the assets/liabilities compositions of foreign exchange banks. Foreign exchange banks must maintain short-term assets—with a maturity of less than three months—of at least 80% against short-term liabilities, and long-term assets—with a maturity of one year or more (prior to September 30, 2001, three years or more)—of at least 50% against long-term liabilities. Foreign exchange banks must maintain positive maturity mismatches from sight to seven days. Any negative mismatch must not exceed 10% of total foreign currency assets from sight to one month. For reference purposes, the foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the funding of maturities exceeding one year and amounts exceeding $50 million or its equivalent. Credits and loans of more than W 100 million a borrower denominated in domestic cur- rency and granted by institutional investors require MOFE approval. Effective January 1, 2001, this limit was raised to W 1 billion, and the authority for approval was shifted to the BOK. Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Effective October 19, 2001, all limits were abolished. Prior to this date, there were some restrictions on the use of loans, but there were no controls on loan ceilings. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts are 2-5% for resident accounts and 1% for nonresident accounts. The overall net open position (short-hand position) of foreign exchange banks measured by the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions, whichever is greater, is limited to 20% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Arrangements for payments and receipts Controls imposed by the Securities Laws established by the FSC are as follows: (1) domes- tic securities investments by nonresident foreign nationals are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include investment ceilings, investment procedures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include securities' eligibility for investment and transaction procedures, etc.; and (3) issuance of overseas securities by resi- dents is regulated by the Regulations on Securities Issuance and Disclosure, which include the eligibility of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting, etc. Changes During 2001 January L Residents may freely export foreign currency banknotes up to the equivalent of $10,000; exports in excess of $10,000 and up to $50,000 require customs notification; and amounts in excess of $50,000 require notification to the BOK. January L Exports of domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 require BOK approval. October 9. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, financial transactions with individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism were prohibited unless approved by the BOK. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January I. The limits on deposits abroad that may be held by general corporations and individuals were eliminated, but general corporations and individuals must notify the BOK when amounts exceed $50,000 a day or its equivalent. January 1. The establishment of domestic currency accounts of less than a one-year maturity no longer require BOK permission. January 1. The licensing requirements for eight ten-digit items in the Harmonized System were abolished. January 1. Export earnings may be used for other overseas transactions as long as their use adheres to the foreign exchange transaction regulations. January I. The limit on payments for travel was eliminated. However, payments for travel or remittances to students exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 a transaction or its equiva- lent must be reported to the BOK, and those that exceed $100,000 a year must be reported to the tax authorities. Previously, the monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days was the equivalent of $10,000; for those staying abroad over one year, a re- mittance of $50,000—including basic travel allowances—was allowed within two months after the time of departure. January L The limits on payments for travel, personal payments, and credit card use abroad for travel expenditures were replaced with a reporting system whereby remittances abroad exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 for education purposes or exceeding $50,000 for personal payments must be reported to the BOK. January 1. The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance no longer requires prior BOK approval; however, BOK notification is still required. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Repatriated funds were allowed to be used for overseas transactions as long as they adhere to the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Capital transactions January L Repatriated funds were allowed to be used for overseas transactions as long as they adhere to the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Controls on capital and money market instruments January L The approval authority for purchases of short-term won-denominated securities abroad was transferred to the BOK from the MOFE. Controls on credit operations Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L The limit on commercial or financial credits in domestic currency granted by resident institutional investors requiring BOK approval was raised to W 1 billion from W 100 million. January L The approval authority for commercial credits in foreign currency granted by general trading companies of more than $10 million or its equivalent, and by other enter- prises of more than $300,000, was transferred to the BOK from the MOFE. January L Notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate and its as- sociated rights other than real estate acquired from nonresidents. However, the acquisition of real estate with funds transferred from abroad requires only notification to a foreign exchange bank. January L The controls on the transfer of assets abroad by emigrants were eliminated and replaced with a bank reporting system. Previously, the limits on these transactions were $400,000 for a head of household and $200,000 a person for members of a household. January L The approval authority for loans by residents to nonresidents of more than $300,000 was transferred to the BOK from the MOFE. January L Loans by residents to nonresidents of up to $300,000 require only BOK notification. January L Personal capital transfers by residents to nonresidents involving gifts, endow- ments, inheritances, and legacies exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 were liberalized and require only BOK notification. January L Credits and loans of more than W 1 billion (previously W 100 million) a bor- rower denominated in domestic currency and granted by institutional investors requires BOK approval (previously MOFE approval). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 513 September 30. The maturity period of long-term assets, of which foreign exchange banks must maintain at least 50% against long-term liabilities, was reduced to one year or more from three years or more. October 19. All restrictions on lending locally in foreign exchange were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of April 30, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5,1963. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The external value of the dinar is determined on the basis of a special weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's trade and financial partners. The Central Bank of Kuwait (CBK) sets the exchange rate vis-£-vis the dollar on the basis of the latest market quotations in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. GCC central banks maintain a regional arrangement to exchange GCC banknotes. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign exchange. All trade with Israel is prohibited. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. On April 2,2002, the Kuwaiti authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to implement the relevant UN Security Council resolutions with regard to anti-money laundering opera- tions, transfers of funds by charitable organizations, and suspect accounts. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are imposed on Iraq. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) may import and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Resident Accounts 515 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegeta- bles. Licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen, a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51% of the stock. Imports of the following goods are prohibited: fireworks; oxygen; gas cylinders; certain steel and asbestos pipes; pork and foodstuffs containing pork; alcoholic beverages; used vehicles over five years old; portable telephones; chewing tobacco; products, machinery, and equipment that operate with ozone-depleting materials; fresh, chilled, frozen, or proc- essed bovine meat and/or its derivatives from EU countries; and ruminant animals imported from EU countries and Turkey. Imports of olive oil from Spain are also prohibited. As a precautionary measure, fresh, chilled, or frozen bovine, buffalo, camel, gazelle, goat, and sheep meats from countries affected by ulcerative stomatitis are temporarily prohibited; imports of the above-mentioned meats are permitted from India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses valid for one-time use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial estab- lishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the MCI. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. Regis- tered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries, and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 KUWAIT Import taxes and/or tariffs Kuwait applies the uniform tariff structure of the GCC. A minimum tariff of 4% applies to non-GCC imports, while no tariffs apply to imports with at least 40% local value added from other GCC members. Imports of foodstuffs, as well as some machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials, are exempt from import duties. Kuwait applies higher tariffs in industries where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local market. Tariff rates differ depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in ques- tion. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic value added, protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing imports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5% in the case of consumer goods. The maximum duty imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and poultry, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Exports of arms and ammunition also require licenses. With quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwait Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls apply to banks and financial institutions subject to CBK supervision. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 517 On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Government approval is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwait. Effective April 17, 2001, foreigners are allowed to own 100% of Kuwaiti companies, subject to conditions to be determined by the Council of Ministers. Prior to this date, foreign participation in new Kuwaiti companies was allowed up to 49%, and the participation of GCC nationals in companies established in Kuwait was allowed up to 75% of the capital. There were no restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. No. Only GCC nationals may purchase real estate of up to 3,000 square meters for private residence purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. No. Borrowing abroad Controls apply to the sale or issue of bonds or other debt securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits may not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and in some cases, lower limits are set. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 518 KUWAIT Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment April 17. Foreigners were allowed to own 100% of Kuwaiti companies, subject to conditions to be determined by the Council of Ministers. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 2. The Kuwaiti authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to implement the relevant UN Security Council resolutions with regard to anti-money laundering opera- tions, transfers of funds by charitable organizations, and suspect accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Kyrgyz som. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate of the som against the dollar is defined as the average-weighted exchange rate of interbank foreign exchange market transactions for the week. The Na- tional Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) participates and intervenes in the interbank foreign exchange market to smooth temporary market fluctuations as necessary. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements, and settlements may be made in any convertible currency. Bilateral payments arrangements There are agreements or settlement procedures with countries of the FSU. Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control Yes. There are agreements with the Interstate Bank and the Central Asian Bank for Cooperation and Development. The NBKR has responsibility for managing its gold and foreign exchange reserves. The som is fu l ly convertible for current payments and transfers with no restrictions on buying, selling, or holding foreign currencies. The NBKR is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are arrears on the servicing of bilateral external debt that are under negotiation with the Paris Club. All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBKR have priority in purchasing and also the right to participate as sellers. If the government and the NBKR do not exercise that right, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. A list of transactions in precious metals that commercial banks are permitted to conduct is given in Regulation No. 30/5 of August 15, 2001. In accordance with the Law on Foreign Currency Transactions of Ju ly 5, 1995, imports and exports of foreign currency may be effected without restriction, provided that they are de- clared to customs for statistical purposes. On exports On imports Exports of currency are subject to declaration for statistical purposes. Imports of currency are subject to declaration for statistical purposes. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Currency Trans- actions of July 5, 1995, they must be registered with the NBKR for statistical purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Nonresident Accounts Yes. Balances of som accounts opened in Kyrgyz banks are subject to statistical recording. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. This list includes weapons; ammunition; explosives; poisons; psychotropic narcotics; pub- lications, photographs, photographic plates, negatives, exposed film, video recordings, and graphic works containing information that may harm the political and economic interests of the Republic, state security, or public order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by Kyrgyz law. Imports of nuclear materials, tech- nologies, and equipment, special nonnuclear materials, and radioactive sources of ionizing radiation are regulated. General and single-use licenses are issued. OGLs are issued for a maximum period of one calendar year. Imports under OGLs may be carried out under one or several contracts, and the nature of the transactions must be specified. The following products are subject to li- censing: encryption equipment; weapons and military hardware; special equipment for their production; military uniforms, clothing, and accessories; specifications and technical documentation for products intended for military use; gunpowder and explosives; nuclear materials, technologies, equipment, and devices; special nonnuclear materials; sources of radioactive radiation; materials, equipment, technologies, and scientific and technical in- formation that are intended for peaceful purposes but could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction; precious metals, from ores to scrap and waste; natural pre- cious stones, from powders to recovered materials; precursors; high-potency poisons; haz- ardous waste; narcotics and psychotropic substances; tobacco; alcohol and alcohol prod- ucts; ozone-depleting substances and products; and works of art and antiquities that are of significant artistic, historical, scientific, or other value. Licenses with quotas Quotas are applied on imports of alcohol and alcoholic products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 521 Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise taxes apply to ethyl alcohol (wood and grain), alcoholic goods, tobacco products, jewelry made of precious stones and metals, crystal products, clothing made from fur and skins, gas-operated arms and firearms, petroleum products, coffee, cocoa, and rugs. Effective April 1, 2001, the customs tariff for 2001 came into force; the number of tariff bands was increased to six (zero, 5%, 6.5%, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%) from four (zero, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%). Effective January 1, 2002, the number of tariff bands was reduced to four (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Export contracts for the following are subject to registration: fish and fish products; grains; soybeans; ethyl alcohol; raw materials for the production of ferrous and nonferrous metals; crude oil; petroleum products; natural gas; electricity; mineral and chemical fertilizers; casein; wood, sawn timber, and lumber materials; raw hides; cotton; tobacco; wool; flax fiber; cobalt and products thereof; rare metals; aluminum oxide; and ferrous and nonferrous metal waste and scrap. Exports of leaf tobacco, cured tobacco, and nonferrous metal waste and scrap are subject to licensing. Exports requiring a permit include: wild animals; wild plants; ivory; horns, hooves, coral, and similar materials; medicinal raw materials; fish and fish products; en- cryption equipment; weapons and military hardware; gunpowder and explosives; precious metals and alloys and articles made of precious metals; precious stones; mineralogy collec- tion samples; information about mineral resources by regions and deposits; narcotics and psychotropic substances; certain types of products and scientific and technical information that could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction; specifications and tech- nical documentation about products intended for military purposes; service and civilian weapons; works of art, antiquities, and other items that are of significant artistic, historical, scientific, or other value. Exports of chemicals, equipment, and technologies that are in- tended for peaceful purposes but could be used in the creation of chemical weapons are regulated and subject to licensing. The list of items prohibited for export includes: weapons; ammunition; explosives; poi- sons; psychotropic narcotics; publications, photographs, negatives, exposed film, video recordings, and graphic works containing information that may harm the political and eco- nomic interests of the Republic, state security, or public order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by Kyrgyz law. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Control is exercised by the National Securities Market Commission (GKRTsB) under the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, except for the following: checks; debt securities of state and local governments; other securities issued or guaranteed by the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, by the NBKR, or by local state authorities; bank certificates (except those meeting the requirements for issuing securities); bills of exchange; and any docu- mented payment obligations arising in the course of usual business activities and valid for a period not exceeding one year. The issuer is obligated to provide the GKRTsB with information on the acquisition by any person of a share in its statutory capital exceeding 5% and/or 5% of its stock shares. NBKR permission is required to purchase commercial bank stocks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents For sales, the regulations governing purchases in the country by nonresidents apply. Non- residents are not allowed to issue shares in the country. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to sale or issue, securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance and circulation of corporate bonds are regulated by the GKRTsB. Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to their sale or issue, securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the GKRTsB; in the case of government securities and interbank transactions, these must be reported to the NBKR. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior to their sale or issue, securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to their sale or issue, securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. On collective investment securities Securities invested in joint-stock investment funds and mutual funds are regulated; the operations of other funds are not presently regulated. Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to their sale or issue abroad, securities must be registered with the GKRTsB. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations There is currently no market in these instruments. Commercial credits The NBKR is responsible for licensing of credit activities of financial institutions. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on these transactions; however, all economic entities must report commercial (trade) credits received and issued to statistical agencies. The MOF is responsible for the management of official external debt. Private loans received by students from nonresidents with a maturity of more than 180 days must be reported to the NBKR. The MOF maintains records on the state's external debt. When a guarantee of the govern- ment of the Kyrgyz Republic is provided, credits must be registered with the MOF. The government does not keep information on private borrowings abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 523 Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment All direct investment enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Justice and statistical agencies. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the Ministry of Justice. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Maintenance of accounts abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Locally issued securities must be denominated in local currency. However, the use of foreign currency, or of payment documents in foreign currency, is permitted in certain instances and according to procedures established by legislation. Investment regulations Abroad by banks These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. In banks by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are established by the NBKR. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investment funds are not permitted to invest, locally or abroad, more than 10% of their total assets in the securities of a single issuer or to hold more than 25% of the securities of a single issuer. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments August 75. Regulation No. 30/5, "On Commercial Bank Transactions with Precious Met- als," came into effect, regulating commercial banks' transactions involving precious metals. April 1. The customs tariff for 2001 came into force; the number of tariff bands was increased to six (zero, 5%, 6.5%, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%) from four (zero, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%). Imports and import payments January 1. The number of tariff bands was reduced to four (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%) from six (zero, 5%, 6.5%, 10%, 17.5%, and 20%). Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Lao kip. Although not expressly permitted legally, the Thai baht and the dollar are widely held and used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: a rate set by the commercial banks and a parallel market rate. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided the spread between buying and sell- ing rates remains less than 2%. In practice, however, la Banque pour le commerce ext£rieur du Laos (BCEL), the major state-owned commercial bank and the dominant transactor in the official exchange market, sets the commercial bank exchange rate taking into account movements in the parallel market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements is imposed on receipts or payments but, in princi- pie, the Bank of the Lao P.D.R. (BOL), the central bank, provides and accepts only dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. A bilateral payments agreement is in effect with Vietnam. An inoperative bilateral payment agreement exists with Malaysia. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China and Vietnam. Administration of control Official transactions are handled by the BOL. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) n.a. n.a. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold and silver require BOL authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency require BOL authorization. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 525 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Residents traveling abroad may take out foreign currency within the limit set from time to time by the BOL. Nonresidents are authorized to take out foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared upon arrival. Imports of domestic currency require BOL authorization. Persons entering the country may bring in unlimited amounts of foreign currency, but these must be declared to an immigration officer at the port of entry if the funds are to be exported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) other transfers from abroad; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency accounts opened with commercial banks within Lao P.D.R., but only in cases where the payments are for specific goods and services that have been authorized by the BOL to be sold domestically for foreign exchange; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These ac- counts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized external payments and transfers. Yes. Residents may open accounts abroad in exceptional cases with the approval of the BOL. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Kip accounts of nonresidents, namely embassies and international organizations, the credit balance of which derives from conversion of foreign currency, are considered as converti- ble accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in Lao P.D.R.; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to accept or deposit into their accounts foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the BOL. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; and (4) payments and transfers abroad. These accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign currencies and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresidents are not per- mitted to deposit kip belonging to residents into their convertible kip accounts. These ac- counts may be debited for (1) payments in kip and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buying rate of the commercial bank concerned. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Margin deposits are required against LCs, and the rates are set by the BCEL and other commercial banks. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are issued automatically, but are subject to indicative limits on the overall level of imports. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Quotas are imposed on imports of cement, fertilizer, fuel, sugar, steel bars, and vehicles. The tariff structure is composed of six rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inputs, and certain essential con- sumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to luxury consumer goods, certain beverages, and tobacco. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from exports of wood and wood products must be surrendered to state-owned commercial banks after all payments due to the government have been settled, as follows: 100% for log exports, 80% for exports of sawn timber, and 60% for exports of wood products. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes On March 1, 2001, export-licensing requirements were lifted for all products, except for mining, timber, and processed and semiprocessed wood products. These licenses are issued by the trade department under the Vientiane prefecture and provincial government authorities. Quotas apply only to timber. Exports of logs are prohibited. Other export taxes Taxes are levied on selected products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these payments; however, information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from merchandise exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 527 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions require BOL authorization. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all these transactions. All derivatives transactions require BOL authorization. Controls on credit operations n.a. Controls on direct investment Direct investments are subject to the Direct Investment Promotion and Management Law. Controls on liquidation of direct investment These transactions are permitted after BOL scrutiny. Transfers of large sums may be made in installments according to a plan approved by the BOL. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. n.a. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized commercial banks may open accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Exports and export proceeds March 1. Export-licensing requirements were lifted for all products, except for mining, timber, and processed and semiprocessed wood products. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Latvia is the Latvian lats. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The lats is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of Latvia (BOL) quotes daily the fixing rates of the lats against 44 convertible currencies and the price of gold. These rates are used for accounting purposes and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes real-time buying and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen). The spread between the buying and selling rate is 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Inoperative bilateral payment agreements are maintained with Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of ministers and approved by parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the BOL and the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade A license is required. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Resident Accounts 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 529 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts There are no blocked accounts. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports except for alcohol (excluding beer), tobacco products, fuel, and other items that pose a health or safety risk. Licensing is almost automatic except for pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The processing time for license applications is no more than 10 business days, and license fees reflect processing costs only. According to the Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs), there are two specific tariffs on sugar and cigarettes. The average of the basic ad valorem tariffs on nonagricultural goods is 2.20%, and the average MFN rate is 1.36%. Some final goods are exempt from customs duties. The average basic rate on agricultural goods is 13.61%, and the average MFN rate is 9.47%. Latvia maintains trade and economic cooperation agreements providing for MFN status with the following countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, the Czech Republic, the EFT A, Estonia, the EU, Hungary, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Russia, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 LATVIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Nonresidents are not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies organizing raffles and gambling, except for nonresidents from the EU, associated countries, and coun- tries with which Latvia has concluded bilateral agreements. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The purchase of buildings is permitted. The purchase of land is not restricted, except for areas of land near borders and environmentally protected areas. Land to be used for agricul- tural and forestry purposes may be bought only if one-half of the paid share capital of the company belongs (1) to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment; (2) to a group of the previous categories; or (3) it is a public joint-stock company, shares of which are quoted on the stock exchange. No. Exposure (including lending) to any Zone B country (except Estonia and Lithuania) must not exceed 25% of a bank's own funds. Total exposure to Zone B countries (except Estonia and Lithuania) must not exceed 200% of a bank's own funds. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of capital for any single foreign currency and 20% of own funds for all foreign currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Private pension funds are not allowed to invest abroad more than 15% of their pension fund assets. Insurance companies may not invest more than 10% of their technical reserves abroad without the prior permission of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 5M Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Investments in time deposits may be made only in banks licensed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, or an OECD member country. The property of a closed-end fund may be invested only in real estate located and registered in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, or an OECD member country. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Exchange rates are market determined, but the authorities may announce buying or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly con- ditions in the exchange market. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency except new Israeli sheqalim. No. No. Forward operations are allowed, provided that a minimum margin deposit of 20% is constituted for each operation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Banks and financial institutions are prohibited from opening debit or credit accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident financial institutions. Credit operations Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Convention. No. No. No. The importation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins require a certificate issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer that indicates the gold content and weight. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The maintenance of these accounts is subject to the regulations concerning the control of banking and financial operations in anti-money laundering legislation (Law No. 318). Held domestically Yes. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 533 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The maintenance of these accounts is subject to the regulations concerning the control of banking and financial operations in anti-money laundering legislation (Law No. 318). Approval required No. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident nonfmancial entities may hold onshore accounts in Lebanese pounds freely. Banks and financial institutions are prohibited from opening debit or credit accounts (including fiduciary accounts) in Lebanese pounds for the nonresident financial sector. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Importers must place with banks a prior deposit of 15% of the value of an LC in the same currency as the LC. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports from Israel are prohibited. Additionally, certain commercial entities listed un- der the Arab Boycott List are banned from trading with Lebanon. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports prohibited year-round include live chickens, all chicken meat (except for chicken nuggets), fresh milk, yogurt, spring onions, cauliflowers, cabbages, carrots, parsnips, broad beans, green peppers, spinach, olives, zucchini, parsley, coriander, watercress, lamb's let- tuce, spearmint, potatoes, green almonds, pine nuts, citrus fruits, bananas, figs, grapes, apples, peaches, plums, green plums, sharon fruits, jujubes, strawberries, quinces, apricots, cherries, pears, thyme, olive oil, and pickles. Imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include tomatoes, cucumbers, egg- plant, green beans, peas, watermelons, muskmelons, onions, garlic, and maize. Imports of various seeds (citrus, apple, olive, and nut); various juices (apple, orange, and lemon); and certain finished goods, wires, cables, cement, veterinary vaccines, and fertilizers require a license. Lebanon uses the Harmonized System Tariff version 2002. Customs valuation is on the basis of c.i.f. value; customs duties are generally ad valorem. Effective May 1,2001, the WTO valuation principle is applied. The ad valorem rates vary between zero and 70%. There are preferential duty rates for goods imported for industrial, agricultural, or public use. In addition to ad valorem duties, the following other methods are used: (1) the bracket- based calculation in the case of cars, when the value of a car is divided into two brackets and the total duty is the sum of the duties applied at each rate; (2) duties calculated on the basis of units of measure, such as weight or volume (e.g., gasoline); and (3) combined duty is calculated on an ad valorem and specific basis, so that the higher amount is collected (e.g., tropical fruits and chickens). In addition, excise duties are collected on alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks, cars, cement, and fuels. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 LEBANON Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Convention and has bilateral agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Effective February 1, 2002, the VAT is levied at a single rate of 10% on all goods and services, whether imported or domestically produced, except for some exempted goods and services. State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of arms and ammunition, narcotics, and similar products are prohibited. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers On May 18, 2001, the Banque du Liban (BDL) issued Decision 7818 ("Status of Control of Banking and Money Activity for Fighting Money Laundering"), requiring banks to apply Law 318 ("Fighting Money Laundering") to each deposit or transfer exceeding $ 10,000. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Negotiations of bank shares are subject to prior authorization from the Central Council of the BDL if (1) a subscriber acquires more than 5% of the aggregate shares of a bank or its voting rights, (2) a subscriber already holds more than 5% of the aggregate shares of the bank or its voting rights, or (3) a subscriber or seller of the bank's shares is a member of the board of directors of the bank. Nonresident banks, financial institutions, and money dealers must obtain approval from the BDL when purchasing treasury securities denominated in Lebanese pounds or CDs from the BDL. Funds used to purchase treasury securities or CDs must originally have been Lebanese pounds that were converted from foreign exchange specifically for this purpose. The same regulations apply for nonresident private persons purchasing treasury securities. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase debt securities from abroad freely. Banks and financial institutions, however, are only allowed to purchase bonds issued by the Group of Ten countries. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 535 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The promotion of and trading in foreign collective investment securities are subject to prior BDL approval. The issuance and trading of derivative products require prior BDL approval. There is no control on the purchases of derivatives or any financial instruments from abroad. Banks, however, unlike financial institutions and brokerage firms, must obtain the prior approval of the BDL to engage in derivative transactions for their own account. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits Banks are prohibited from extending credits in Lebanese pounds to the nonresident finan- cial sector. By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents No. No. All non-Arab foreigners require a license from the Council of Ministers to acquire real estate. Arab nationals do not need a license, but a ceiling is imposed on the total area that may be acquired. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks need prior BDL approval for launching or trading in financial products. Guarantees on such products may not exceed 7% of the bank's equity and must be reported to the Banking Control Commission. Banks are prohibited from extending credits in Lebanese pounds for the nonresident finan- cial sector. This control does not apply to guarantees issued by nonresident banks and fi- nancial institutions as collateral to loans in Lebanese pounds, provided that such loans are for commercial or investment activities in Lebanon. In addition, the net debtor interbank position between a Lebanese bank and its affiliate or sister company abroad may not ex- ceed 25% of core capital. Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are subject to a reserve requirement of 15%, irrespective of their maturity. Effective September 20, 2001, liquid assets in foreign exchange may not be less than 15% of the total of the client's deposits of all maturities, CDs, bonds, and subordinated loans with a maturity of one year or less. Banks must deposit 15% of the above-mentioned items in foreign currencies at the BDL. Prior BDL approval is required for banks to acquire shares in foreign financial institutions. Foreigners' participation in the shares of Lebanese banks is limited in accordance with Law 308. Foreign banks may establish fu l ly owned branches, subject to BDL approval. Effective March 14, 2001, regardless of resident or nonresident status of assets or liabili- ties, banks must maintain a trading position (total open position less total structural posi- tion, the latter of which is defined as long-term positions representing foreign assets in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 LEBANON foreign currencies) in foreign currency of up to 1% of the Tier I capital of banks, and a global position (total trading position, short or long) of up to 40% of Tier I capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments May L Lebanon began to apply the WTO valuation principle. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers May 18. BDL Decision No. 7818 ("Status of Control of Banking and Money Activity for Fighting Money Laundering") was issued, which requires banks to apply Law 318 ("Fighting Money Laundering") to each deposit or transfer exceeding $10,000. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 14. In accordance with BDL Decision No. 6568, banks are required to maintain a trading position (total open position less total structural position) in foreign currency of up to 1% of the Tier I capital of banks, and a global position (total trading position, short or long) of up to 40% of Tier I capital. September 20. In accordance with BDL Decision No. 7926, liquid assets in foreign ex- change may not be less than 15% of the total of the client's deposits of all maturities, CDs, bonds, and subordinated loans with a maturity of one year or less. Banks are further required to deposit 15% of the above-mentioned items in foreign currencies at the BDL. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments February 1. The VAT was levied at a single rate of 10% on all goods and services, whether imported or domestically produced, except for some exempted goods and services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 5, 1997. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Lesotho loti. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The loti is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, however, is not common in Lesotho. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements by or with residents of CMA member countries with all countries outside the CMA may be made to and from a nonresident account in rand or in any other foreign currency. Lesotho is a member of the CMA, within which payments are unrestricted, except that transactions must be reported for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those applied by Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of current payments up to estab- lished limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise based on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions accepting deposits, insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. No. No. Only authorized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may hold gold. Controls on external trade Exports of gold from the CMA are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency from Lesotho are prohibited. Exports of foreign currency from the CMA by residents are prohibited; visitors may reex- port the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the country. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 LESOTHO Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Only banks may hold these accounts, and approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Approval is required. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Funds in an emigrant's blocked loti account may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a family unit a year. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment, except with prior approval or special authorization from the CBL. Authorized dealers may permit, without the CBL's approval, advance payments of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if sup- pliers require it or if it is normal practice in the trade concerned. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lesotho is a member of the SACU; all imports originating in any country of the SACU are unrestricted, except certain food items. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usu- ally licensed in conformity with SACU import regulations. Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. With certain exceptions, imports from outside the SACU must conform to a negative list and be licensed (e.g., ammunition, flora and fauna, and illegal drugs). Licenses with quotas Some food imports from countries within the SACU are subject to import licensing. Import taxes and/or tariffs Lesotho applies the external customs tariffs of the SACU. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 539 Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export credit scheme is in effect, involving credit guarantees and pre- and postshipment credits. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is limited to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Profit and dividend transfers are not restricted, provided the funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test There is no indicative limit or bona fide test for the payment of commissions. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. There is a limit of M 100,000 a year for adults and M 30,000 for children under 12 years of age. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval is required for payment of study expenses abroad. For study abroad, the limits are M 80,000 a year for a single student or M 160,000 a year for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not studying. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 LESOTHO Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Export credits are available for up to six months; in certain circumstances, the maturity can be extended by six months. Longer-term credits require exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits require exchange control approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment These credits require prior approval. However, wholly nonresident-owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not dis- rupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Outward direct investment Outward direct investment is prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 541 Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits An overall limit of 20% is applied. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Liberia is the Liberian dollar. The U.S. dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The Liberian dollar is market determined, and all foreign exchange dealers including banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies, including the U.S. dollar, at market-determined exchange rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control Yes. No. Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 543 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Preshipment inspection is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan- tity, and the value of all goods to be shipped. Both final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than US$3,000. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items, including safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the MCI. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly The nominal average tariff rate is 11.7%. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. n.r. Export licenses Export taxes Licenses generally are issued freely, including those for agricultural products, to ensure certification of quality and origin. Prior to July 1, 2001, an export tax of 5% was imposed on the f.o.b. value of rubber and other agricultural produce, payable in U.S. dollars, and an export tax of 15% was levied on diamonds. Effective that date, export taxes are imposed on processed and unprocessed goods at the rates of zero and 2.5%, respectively, and on diamonds and precious metals, at the rate of 4%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 LIBERIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers; however, information on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investment is not available. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. n.r. No. No. Changes During 2001 Exports and export proceeds July 1. Export taxes were imposed on processed and unprocessed goods at the rates of zero and 2.5%, respectively, and 4% on diamonds and precious metals. Previously, an export tax of 5% was imposed on the f.o.b. value of rubber and other agricultural produce, and an export tax of 15% was levied on diamonds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Libya is the Libyan dinar. Prior to January 1, 2002, Libya had two exchange rates: the official exchange rate and the special rate. Most transactions, including oil exports and most public sector imports, took place at the official exchange rate. Effective January 1, 2002, the official exchange rate was devalued to LD 1 per SDR 0.608 from LD 1 per SDR 1.224, effectively unifying the dual exchange rate system. The official exchange rate is pegged to the SDR within a horizontal band around the central exchange rate. The parallel or special rate, which was in use through December 31, 2001, was pegged to the U.S. dollar. The authorities gradually devalued the official rate relative to the SDR by progressively widening the band around the central value and pegging the official exchange rate to the lower end of the band, making the band insignificant in prac- tice. Concomitantly, while it was in use, the authorities appreciated the special exchange rate-relative to the U.S. dollar and extended its coverage to include a larger number of transactions. To reflect this information, effective June 30,2001, the exchange rate ar- rangement has been reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. A tax of 15% is levied on foreign exchange purchases, and a subsidy of 15% is granted on foreign exchange sales by the private sector. The difference between the tax revenue and subsidy expenditure is used to finance the Great Man-Made River Project. The following are exempt from this tax: (1) all transactions in foreign exchange in the budget, including oil revenues; (2) all transactions made by public enterprises; and (3) the transferable portion of the salaries of nonresidents employed by the Libyan government. In addition, a fee of LD 0.5 is applied to cash transactions to encourage the use of noncash operations, such as LCs and bank transfers. Exchange subsidy A subsidy of 15% is granted on foreign exchange sales by the private sector. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions with Israel are prohibited. Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Agreements are maintained with Algeria, Malta, Morocco, and Tunisia. Outstanding balances are settled in convertible currencies every 90 days. The Central Bank of Libya (CBL) administers exchange controls and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, which is executed by the Secretariat of Economy and Commerce (SEC). International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The CBL imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold must be processed before it may be sold to the public. Imports of unworked gold are subject to a duty of 15%. Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to export Libyan currency. Residents and nonresidents may export any amount of foreign exchange for personal, non- commercial purposes through authorized banks. To control money laundering, effective January 1, 2002, ceilings of $5,000 and $10,000 a transaction are enforced on the purchase of foreign exchange in cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure. On imports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to import Libyan currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Individual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad without restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign ex- change earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Nonresidents who are employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts, which may be credited with their legitimate earnings. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors for contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior ap- proval of the CBL after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Funds brought in by nonresidents may be reexported if not used, after submission of evidence. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 547 Foreign exchange budget Effective January 1, 2002, the system is not applied. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Effective February 2, 2002, authorized banks may not open an LC for private sector im- porters or for public enterprises without an advance import deposit equal to at least 50% of the value of the import (prior to this date, the deposit requirement for public enterprises was 25%). Authorized banks may open LCs without approval from the CBL. Before an LC is estab- lished, a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company must be submitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, pro- vided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the SEC. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Effective March 16, 2002, import licenses are not required. Prior to that date, all imports required licenses, except for imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises for projects financed by the government. Importers may import only the types of products that are in accordance with their business specialty. Imports by nonresidents must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. With the exception of strategic goods (i.e., nine essential food items, medicines, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold) retained by public corporations, all other goods may be imported by either pub- lic or private entities. Imports of the following are prohibited: Arabic lounge materials; candles; electro-oil heat- ers; hand brooms; iron, plastic, and wooden pipes; plastic barrels and bottles; plastic cov- ers; Portland cement; school supplies; telephone equipment; unpainted pottery; medical alcohol; organic and urea fertilizers; potash; soap bars; canned juices; chocolate not made with cacao; green vegetables; harissa; industrial fruit powder; mineral water; olive oil; po- tato chips; eggs; poultry; pork meat and fats; preserved meats and vegetables; alcoholic beverages; used equipment and machineries; tractors; used cars; luxury cars; and yachts. Imports of the following products are temporarily prohibited: bags, belts, canned vegeta- bles, chewing gum, chocolate made with cacao, clothing other than men's suits and over- coats, gloves, hunting guns, oriental rugs, ready-made feedstock, shoes, textiles other than those for manufacturing, and toys. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to deal directly with produc- ers abroad and not through intermediaries. Imports are subject to customs duties and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the applicable customs duties. All products from Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, pro- vided domestic value added is at least 40%. Effective January 1, 2002, imports by commer- cial public enterprises are exempt from customs duties. Foreign exchange purchases by the private sector are subject to a 15% tax. A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. This company is, however, currently under liquidation. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated within three months of shipment. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Exporters are allowed to retain up to 100% of nonhydrocarbon earnings, n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J48 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require the opening of LCs. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the Export Promo- tion Council and supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on their exports. Exports of electricity, hides, nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), paper products, school supplies, scrap metals, and telecommunication services are prohibited. Exports or reexports of vegetable oils, wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, cof- fee, tea, sugar, and tomato paste—all of which are subsidized products—are prohibited. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the eco- nomic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, pro- vided that the paid-up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Information is not available on the pay- ment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects set up within the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred without restriction. Residents are allowed to purchase foreign exchange for tourism from authorized banks up to $10,000 in traveler's checks or $5,000 in cash. Yes. Nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, or foreign companies may remit the entire amount of their net salaries. Further, up to 50% (65% from January 1, 2002) of their total net salary each month is exempt from the GMR tax if their work con- tracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer; and up to 75% of their total net salary is exempt if their work contracts spec- ify that the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Purchase abroad of these instruments by residents requires approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 549 On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Public enterprises not included in the foreign exchange budget are allowed to sell any amount of foreign exchange they earn at the special rate to open or settle credit through the banking system, provided they report the sources and uses of the foreign exchange. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20,1970, is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Full foreign ownership is permitted, however, in ventures established in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board. Approval is granted for projects that lead to domestic job creation or training, use of local raw materi- als, transfers of technology, and inflows of foreign currencies. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid- up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Capital invested in projects set up in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred freely to the country of origin. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for For- eign Affairs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. Changes During 2001 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. The official exchange rate was devalued to LD 1 per SDR 0.608 from LD 1 per SDR 1.224, effectively unifying the dual exchange rate system. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Ceilings of $5,000 and $10,000 a transaction were put in place on the purchase of foreign exchange in cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Imports and import payments January 1. The foreign exchange budget system was no longer applied. January L Imports by commercial public enterprises were exempt from customs duties. February 2. The deposit requirement for public enterprises was raised to 50% from 25%. March 16. Import licenses were no longer required. Prior to that date, all imports required licenses, except for imports undertaken by state-owned enterprises for projects financed by the government. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The proportion of net salaries that may be transferred by nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, or foreign companies that is exempt from the GMR tax was raised to 65% from 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lithuania is the Lithuanian litas. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Effective February 2, 2002, the litas was pegged to the euro at the rate of LTL 3.4528 per €1. Prior to that date, the litas was pegged to the dollar at LTL 4 per $1. No. No. Any natural or juridical person may enter into a forward exchange contract with a bank operating in Lithuania or in a foreign country without restriction. The majority of the trans- actions in the forward exchange market are conducted with nonresident banks (banks and their clients normally use this market to limit their open positions). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The Law on Foreign Currency stipulates that foreign currency may be used only for pay- ments to and settlements with legal and natural persons of foreign countries who reside outside of Lithuania. The payment system, payment instruments, and the relationship among the participants of the payment system in Lithuania are governed by the Law on Payments. Use of foreign exchange among residents Foreign currency may be used only for payments to and settlements with legal and natural persons of foreign countries who reside outside of Lithuania. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. There is an agreement between the BOL and the National Bank of Belarus. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a banking law delegating to the BOL the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions in Lithuania must be ef- fected through authorized credit institutions licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania; the BOL may limit on a case-by-case basis the types of transactions that may be conducted. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 LITHUANIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of domestic banknotes exceeding LTL 10,000 or its equivalent must be declared. On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Juridical persons need the permission of the BOL to hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Approval is required if the legislation of the other country requires approval. Yes. Yes. Certain accounts are blocked by government resolutions in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons and as noted below. Certain food products, such as semiprocessed meat products, poultry, and fish, are subject to licensing. Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quantitative restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco may be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. A three-tier tariff structure exists consisting of (1) a "conventional" rate applied to countries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement; and (3) an "autonomous" rate that is usually 5% higher than the MFN rate and is applied to all other countries. Imports entering under a majority of tariff lines are duty free; and most other tariff lines carry duty rates of 20% or less; however, rates ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 553 on agricultural products range as high as 87%. Some non-ad valorem duty rates remain in effect. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are licensing requirements governing trade in strategic goods and technology. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1, 2001, all export taxes were abolished. Prior to that date, taxes were applied to exports of raw hides; certain types of logs; glands and other organs for thera- peutic purposes or for use in the preparation of pharmaceutical products; and feathers. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign investments in the following areas are prohibited: (1) national security and defense, except for investments by foreign entities that meet the criteria for European and transatlan- tic integration, provided that they are approved of by the State Defense Council; and (2) the organization of lotteries. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign enterprises are allowed to acquire nonagricultural land. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 LITHUANIA Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Juridical, nonbank individuals must inform the BOL about their accounts with foreign banks. Locally issued securities must be denominated in the national currency, Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 25% of their capital, and the open position in individual currencies may not exceed 15% of the banks' capital. There is a 30% limit on investment by pension funds in foreign securities, Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exports and export proceeds January L All export taxes were abolished. Changes During 2001 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement February 2. The litas was pegged to the euro at the rate of LTL 3.4528 per €1, replacing a peg to the dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of Luxembourg is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Lux- embourg franc and the Belgian franc remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, the Luxembourg franc, the Belgian franc, and the euro circulated. On March 1,2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Other legal tender The Belgian franc also circulates as legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate Luxembourg participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: legal tender Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Luxembourg franc was set at Lux F 40.3399 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Certain restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers for current international transac- tions in respect of Iraq, Myanmar, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and Zim- babwe. Restrictions in respect of Libya have been suspended in accordance with UN reso- lutions. Funds in relation to certain persons associated with the former government of the Republic of Yugoslavia are frozen. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 LUXEMBOURG Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts affected by international security restrictions are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for imports may be made freely. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (imports do not require an import license when imported from another EU member country), including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with other EU countries, Luxembourg applies quotas on a number of textile pro- ducts from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA. It also applies a system of quotas on some steel products originating in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine. A double- checking system (without quotas) is applied to imports of some steel products from the Czech Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, and the Slovak Republic. Quotas are applied on a number of products from China, such as ceramics, porcelain, and shoes. The EU's prior surveillance system is in force on imports of certain iron and steel products originating in non-EU countries. Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG 557 Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, such as arms and dual-use goods, and diamonds. Export licenses are also required for exports to countries under UN embargo. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. These are applicable only to insurance undertakings. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 LUXEMBOURG Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. The euro, the Belgian franc, and the Luxem- bourg franc could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March 1. The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19,1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Macedonian denar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange market operates at two levels: wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia (NBRM)) and retail (households). The NBRM participates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the deutsche mark (from January 1,2002, the euro) at a level that meets balance of payments objectives. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enter- prises have to be reported to the NBRM, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the NBRM publishes rates for 12 cur- rencies and deals at the published midpoint rates plus or minus a margin of 0.3%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, and natural persons. Foreign exchange bu- reaus may hold foreign exchange positions equivalent to 100% of the net foreign exchange purchases in the preceding 10 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. Official cover of forward operations The NBRM may conclude forward foreign exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. The NBRM is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other finan- cial institutions. The MOF is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate internationally. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been delegated to participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy adminis- ter the Foreign Trade Act. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold producers must report all production, including quality and quantity sold. Processors are also required to report all quantities bought and processed. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold require NBRM approval. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency A maximum of MDen 5,000 in denominations of 10-, 20-, 50-, and 100-denar banknotes may be exported. Private domestic travelers may export up to the equivalent of DM 5,000 (from January 1, 2002, €2,500). Business travelers may export up to the amount stated on the bank order form. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country. The same limits apply as for exports. Foreign travelers must declare foreign currency over the equivalent of DM 300 (from Janu- ary 1,2002, €150). Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange deposits made after April 26,1991, are freely disposable, i.e., they may be withdrawn in foreign currency or converted into denars. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Enterprises with foreign operations may hold these accounts, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion into denars. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A contract, invoice, or customs declaration should be submitted to the commercial bank effecting the payment. Generally, payments for imports are permitted after the importation of goods. Only imports of equipment and spare parts, some essential consumer goods, goods financed by foreign loans, and raw materials may be paid in advance. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing requirements for security or public health reasons. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tar iffs Effective January 1,2001, duty rates on raw materials were reduced to a range of zero to 2% from zero to 8% and those on machinery and equipment to a range of 1-8% from a range of 5-20%. Duty rates on consumer goods range from 15% to 35%; and those on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 561 agricultural goods from 20% to 60%. The number of bands is 16, and the average rate is about 14.46%. Effective January 1, 2002, the 1% documentation fee was eliminated and was replaced with a fixed fee of €19 for each tariff group specified in the import declara- tion. Imports of goods and services for which import duties are not levied are exempt from this customs fee. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds from exports that are not based on commodity credits must be received by the exporters within 90 days from the date of exportation. Exporters must inform their banks of the origin and ultimate destination of their proceeds within four business days, and must transfer the proceeds within 90 days. Exporters may retain the foreign exchange for 30 days and use it for payments abroad or sell it on the foreign exchange market. Effective May 29, 2001, foreign exchange receipts that are not used for payment abroad must be surrendered within 30 days. Previously, receipts had to be surrendered within 180 days. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Generally, exports do not require a license. However, in some exceptional cases, the export of certain goods requires a license from the appropriate authorities. Yes. A fee of 0.1% is levied by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) on exports for promotional purposes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Personal payments Prior approval The transfer of pensions is permitted only on the basis of ratified international agreements. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the regulations governing merchandise exports. Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and juridical persons is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents According to the Commercial Companies Act, nonresidents may acquire shares in domestic companies on the same terms as residents, but they need to register the investment with the MOE. According to the Securities Act, nonresidents may issue securities in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of reciprocity and with the approval of the Commis- sion on Securities. Purchase abroad by residents According to the Foreign Trade Act, only foreign direct investments are permitted by the MOE. The transfer of foreign exchange requires the approval of the NBRM. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participatory nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participatory nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participatory nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participatory nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. n.r. Short-term commercial banks' credit lines with a maturity exceeding 90 days are to be registered. By residents to nonresidents Credits for the export of goods and services exceeding 90 days are to be registered. To residents from nonresidents Credits exceeding 180 days must be registered with the NBRM. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment These credits are freely permitted, subject only to a requirement that documentary evidence be submitted to the NBRM. These credits are freely permitted, subject only to a requirement that documentary evidence be submitted to the NBRM. Only commercial banks may effect these transactions, which should be registered with the NBRM. Investments require approval from, and registration with, the MOE. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or establish joint ventures, except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not produced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20%. All foreign in- vestment registered with the MOE is protected from nationalization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 563 Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on all these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. According to the Foreign Credit Relation Act, natural persons are not permitted to engage in credit relations. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Inheritances may be transferred on the basis of an agreement of reciprocity with the respective country. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The transfer of proceeds from gambling is not permitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are not permitted. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Reserve requirements The effective reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits of individuals are 30% on sight and one-month deposits, 20% on three-month deposits, 10% on six-month deposits, and zero on deposits longer than six months. The effective reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits of enterprises is 75%. Liquid asset requirements Yes. Credit controls Credit controls apply only to domestic currency credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonresident deposits are subject to reserve requirements. Yes. Yes. n.r. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 1. The maximum duty rate on raw materials was decreased to 2% from 8% and the range of duty rates on machinery and equipment was changed to 1-8% from 5-20%. May 29. The period for surrender of export proceeds was reduced to 30 days from 180 days. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January 1. The 1% documentation fee on imports was eliminated and replaced with a fixed fee of €19 for each tariff group specified in the import declaration. Imports of goods and services for which import duties are not levied are exempt from this fee. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 18, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined freely in the official interbank market. The euro is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. No. No. There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Importers may buy foreign currency 120 days prior to settlement from their bank. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.a. Inoperative There is an arrangement with Mauritius that has been inoperative for some time. Regional arrangements Madagascar is a member of RIFF. Barter agreements and open accounts Regulations prohibit barter trade. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the General Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar. Ap- proval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, except for capital operations, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold within the country from holders of valid gold mining titles, from authorized holders of Gold Board gold washing rights, and from agencies for approved collectors. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and 565 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 MADAGASCAR (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold mining title or a gold washing permit or rights thereto are free to sell any gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. The Gold Board and agencies authorized by the Ministry of Mining may export gold in all its forms. Jewelers, goldsmiths, and pri- vate sector professionals who use gold may export it only in worked form, subject to the decision of the Minister of Mining. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is more than the equivalent of F 50,000. Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to FMG 25,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is equal to F 50,000 or more. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents may freely open foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, as well as foreign bank- notes or traveler's and bank checks, may be deposited in these accounts without documen- tation. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the limits stipulated under the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. MOF authorization is required for opening foreign exchange accounts abroad in foreign banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. Transactions between residents and enterprises in the free trade zone are conducted either through the enterprises' special accounts in Malagasy francs or through their foreign ex- change accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 567 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements The requirement applies to all imports. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There is a short list of imports subject to administrative control primarily for health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly The tariff structure has four rates (5%, 15%, 25%, and 30%). To ensure a more coherent tax structure, products have been allocated among these four rates. Some imports, mostly luxury goods, are subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%. A pretax of 3% to 5%, deductible from the corporate tax, is paid on all imports. Prior to September 1, 2001, when this system was abolished, petroleum products were imported by a state monopoly. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the shipment date. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes All exports, excluding free deliveries, require either a collect on delivery or settlement against delivery of documents. Effective February 13, 2002, this requirement applies only to exports exceeding FMG 2.5 million (previously, exceeding FMG 1 million). Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of the due date, Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. There are no capital market regulations, since there is no capital market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 MADAGASCAR Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization is not required for sales and issues of shares in Madagascar. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n.r. By residents to nonresidents These operations currently do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export prefinancing operations are permitted. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the MOF, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit insti- tutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign compa- nies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. Investments, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted within Madagascar without authorization or investment approval. The total or partial liquidation of these investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the MOF. Purchase abroad by residents Prohibited, unless otherwise approved by the MOF. Sale locally by nonresidents The transfer of proceeds of sales is subject to prior authorization by the MOF. Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls are implemented through bank supervision. n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 569 Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments September 1. The storage facilities of SOLIMA, the state petroleum agency, were privat- ized, thus abolishing the state monopoly on petroleum imports. Exports and export proceeds February 13. The amount exceeding which a domiciliation requirement applies was raised to FMG 2.5 million from FMG 1 million. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange market participants are free to quote their own rates, provided that the margin between the buying and selling rates does not exceed 2%. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients. Official intervention is limited to meeting the target on net foreign assets and performing seasonal smoothing operations. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Malawi or in kwacha through nonresident accounts. Current transactions between a resident and a nonresident may be settled only in foreign exchange, apart from transactions effected through nonresident accounts, which may be settled in kwacha. Yes. Payments to and receipts from nonresidents in respect of capital transactions may be made through the banking system, but the foreign exchange currency must be converted into kwacha. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents It is prohibited to quote, demand, or accept foreign currency for goods or services sold or procured in Malawi. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Malawi is a member of RIFF. Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RDM) under the author- ity of the MOF. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 571 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only the monetary authorities may hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Only the monetary authorities may conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in consultation with the MOF; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Malawian and Mozambican monetary authorities are working toward the formalization of a repatriation agreement. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Up to MK 3,000 may be exported. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalents of $3,000, $4,000, and $5,000, applicable to tourist, medical, and business travel, respectively. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount that they imported, less any amount spent. Up to MK 3,000 may be imported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Effective May 15, 2001, residents receiving foreign exchange from exports of goods and services or any other bona fide economic activity may maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) provided that they satisfy the terms and conditions for operating such accounts of the bank involved. Balances in FCAs may be used to make foreign payments and transfers, provided exchange control regulations are satisfied. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to hold offshore accounts denominated in kwacha. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but authorized dealer banks (ADBs) are required to report them to the RBM. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, with authorized payments in kwacha from abroad, and with transfers from other nonresi- dent accounts. These accounts may also be debited to make payments to residents of Ma- lawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonresident accounts, and make payments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are fu l ly remittable abroad without prior approval. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts require prior authorization, and authorization is normally given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. Interest earned on balances may be transferred to the account holder's country of residence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 MALAWI Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in kwa- cha to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. When im- ports arrive in the country and payment is due the importer must submit to an ADB applica- tion for foreign exchange. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant importation, customs, and preshipment inspection documents. Advance payment requirements Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Importers are encouraged to use other modes of payment (e.g., LCs). Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Advance import deposits are not required by law; however, commercial banks do require them as a banking practice and depending on the mode of payment (e.g., LCs). A clean-report-of-findings certificate is required. All imports into Malawi amounting to $2,000 (f.o.b.) or its equivalent and above are subject to preshipment inspection. Imports of clothing and uniforms designed for military or police use, radioactive sub- stances, mist nets for the capture of wild birds, wild animals, live fish, compound products suitable only for use as animal fodder, eggs of domestic or wild birds, live poultry (includ- ing day-old chicks), meat dieldrin, aidrin, and table salt require specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are usually issued within one week of application and are normally valid for six months. Most imports are subject to the OGL, including imports from Commonwealth countries and from WTO member countries. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs are ad valorem and range up to 35% of c.i.f. value, with a weighted aver- age of about 15%. Customs tariffs on all items with MFN status range from zero to 30%. Tariffs on items from the COMESA region range from zero to 13%. Selected government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax ranging up to 20%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Effective May 15,2001, ADBs are required to convert 40% (previously 60%) of foreign exchange received from exports immediately upon receipt at the prevailing buying ex- change rate, and to credit kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The remaining 60% may be credited to the exporter's FCA. There are no restrictions on the time period during which such balances may be held. This 40% conversion also applies to dollar proceeds from tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the conversion is 100% until the seller has fully repaid the overdraft with the bankers. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a form. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 573 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Commercial banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange, without reference to the exchange control authorities, for all current invisible payments. These payments are allowed, provided the investment is registered with and the foreign loan has been approved by the RBM. The limits are the equivalent of $3,000 a trip for tourist travel and $5,000 a trip for busi- ness travel. Foreign exchange in excess of these limits is granted upon proof of need. Subsequent issues of foreign exchange to the same individual with respect to private or business travel is granted upon proof of need. ADBs may approve up to the equivalent of $1,000 for family maintenance and alimony payments. Limits are also applied to these payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits apply to payments for medical treatment. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval The limit is two-thirds of current net earnings. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Effective May 15, 2001, 40% (previously 60%) of proceeds may be converted into local currency upon receipt, and the balance may be held in FCAs. Restrictions on use of funds Funds may be used only in accordance with exchange control regulations. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward transfers of non-debt creating capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 MALAWI Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Repatriation of investments is permitted when the original investment has been made with funds brought into the country. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 575 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds May 15. Residents receiving foreign exchange from exports of goods and services or any other bona fide economic activity were allowed to maintain FCAs provided that they satisfy their bank's terms and conditions for operating such accounts. May 15. The amount of foreign exchange received from exports that ADBs are required to convert immediately was decreased to 40% from 60%. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers May 15. The amount of foreign exchange received from invisible transactions that may be converted into local currency was reduced to 40% from 60%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian ringgit. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the ringgit is pegged against the dollar at RM 3.80 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) n.a. n.a. Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transac- tions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports may be provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes, forward cover may be provided for up to 6 months from the export date. Forward exchange contracts against the ringgit with nonresidents require the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange (COFE), with the following ex- ceptions: (1) authorized dealers may enter into short-term currency swap arrangements with nonresident custodian banks and stockbroking companies for payments of share purchases on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) with maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm commitments; and (2) authorized dealers may enter into outright ringgit forward sale contracts with nonresidents with maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm underlying commitments to purchase shares on the KLSE. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There are 22 arrangements. There are 11 arrangements. Malaysia is a member of the ASEAN. Yes. The COFE, who is also the Governor of the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), administers exchange control. Malaysia imposes certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On November 1 and De- cember 24,2001, and on March 22, 2002, the Malaysian authorities notified the IMF of a circular instructing financial institutions to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of indi- viduals and economic entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 577 Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The limit on exports of domestic currency by resident and nonresident travelers is RM 1,000 a person. The export of domestic currency by other means, irrespective of the amount, requires prior approval. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of RM 10,000, and nonresi- dents may export up to the amount that they previously brought into Malaysia. Exports of larger amounts require prior approval. Residents and nonresidents may import up to RM 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency ac- counts with designated banks in Malaysia with an overnight limit of between $1 million and $10 million or any other approved amount. Limits imposed on exporters are based on their average export receipts over the previous 12 months. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or multicurrency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export receipts, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of $0.5 million. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowings are allowed to open one or more foreign currency or multicurrency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia for retaining foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, with no limit on the overnight balances. Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts with author- ized banks for payment of education and employment expenses, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of $100,000. Prior approval is required to retain amounts exceeding the permitted limit. Corporate residents who are domestic borrowers are allowed to open one or more for- eign currency or multicurrency accounts with Labuan offshore banks to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export proceeds, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of $0.5 million. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowing are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks for crediting foreign currency receivables other than export proceeds without the possibility of keeping overnight balances. Resident individuals are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for payment of education and employment expenses-with an overnight limit of up to $100,000 with licensed offshore banks in Labuan, and up to $50,000 with overseas banks. Residents with domestic borrowing require prior approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted All commercial banks and approved merchant banks are allowed to maintain these accounts. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 MALAYSIA Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident ringgit accounts in Malaysia are known as external accounts. Effective July 18, 2001, sources of funds in these accounts may include sales of foreign currency; ringgit assets in Malaysia; salaries, wages, rentals, commissions, interest, profits, and divi- dends; proceeds from approved ringgit loans extended by residents and/or extended in ac- cordance with the terms and conditions of employment; proceeds from repayments of ap- proved ringgit loans; deposits of ringgit loans of up to RM 10,000 a day; transfers of up to RM 5,000 a transaction from or to an account by way of ringgit checks; and transfers of any amount from another external account held by the same entity. Effective November 26, 2001, this list was expanded to include transfers of up to RM 5,000 a transaction from an account for any purpose through ATM cards, Internet banking, or ringgit checks. Also effective July 18, 2001, funds in external accounts may be used for payments for pur- chases of foreign currency and ringgit assets in Malaysia; payments for administrative and statutory expenses incurred in Malaysia; payments for goods and services in Malaysia; granting of loans and advances to staff in Malaysia in accordance with the terms and condi- tions of employment; payments of nonfmancial guarantees (when a guarantee is requested); repayments of permitted ringgit loans; and ringgit cash withdrawals. Prior approval is re- quired for transfers of funds between external accounts and for uses of funds other than for permitted purposes. There are no restrictions on the operation of the external accounts of nonresidents working in Malaysia, embassies, consulates, high commissions, central banks, or international organizations in Malaysia. There is no restriction on conversion of ringgit funds in external accounts into foreign cur- rency for repatriation. Investors are freely allowed to bring funds into and to repatriate funds out of the country. Blocked accounts All debits and credits to accounts of residents of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports All imports must be settled in foreign currency. Minimum financing requirements There are minimum financing requirements for rice, fish, and fishery products that vary, depending on the agreement between those involved. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list In accordance with a special agreement, sales of rice from Myanmar are subject to advance payments. Other documents required are the invoice, the bill of lading, a sanitary or phytosanitary certificate, and the certificate of origin. Preshipment inspections are made by independent surveyors in the case of rice imports. Buyers must open irrevocable LCs. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the MOF. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is administered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, the Department of Agri- culture (DOA), and the Department of Veterinary Services of Malaysia (DVSM), on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Import licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the Fisheries Development Au- thorities of Malaysia (LKIM). A service charge of $0.05 a kilogram is imposed on imported fish and fishery products. The shipment of live fish (including between peninsular Malay- sia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requires a permit issued by the LKIM. In accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a permit is required from the Department of Wildlife for the import of endangered spe- cies. Import permits for animals and animal products—including those from Sabah and Sarawak—are issued by the DVSM. Import approvals are subject to import risk analysis ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 579 and accreditation of establishments/premises under the Animal Ordinance 1953 and in accordance with regulations of the Office of International Epizootics and other standards. Permits for the importation of round cabbage and raw coffee need to be obtained from the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA). Import quotas for round cabbage are issued every month, while import quotas for raw coffee are issued every three months. Planting material; organic fertilizer; processed mineral clay; processed sand; and plants and plant parts —including seeds and other planting material, soils (i.e., clay, sand, processed and unprocessed soils), growth media, herbarium, dried flowers, organic fertilizer, and microorganisms—require import permits issued by the DOA under the Plant Quarantine Act. Imports of unprocessed food and plants from tropical America and Central Africa are prohibited under the same act. Imports of cereals and nuts from countries known to harbor khapra beetles must be treated and accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate. Imports of plant products intended for consumption or processing are subjected to inspection upon arrival. Approval from the DOA is required to import fresh pineapples; otherwise, a duty of 300% is levied. Approval from the Ministry of Health is required to import 19 chemical substances. Effective January 11, 2001, all radio communications apparatus capable of telecommunica- tion in frequency bands of less than 3,000 GHz require a license from the Standard and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia, except for receivers designed for use in broad- casting services and radio communications apparatus that have a valid license issued by the telecommunication authority of any country or an international automatic roaming card issued by a licensed operator. Import licenses for rice are issued by the DOA. Certain imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when necessary. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Import duty exemptions are provided to intermediate manufactured goods and rice. Anti- dumping duties have been imposed on PVC floor covering, self-copy paper, and corru- gating medium paper from specified companies to their related companies. Temporary antidumping duties are also imposed on imports of gypsum boards. Under the privatization agreement, the corporation BERNAS has been granted the sole right to import rice into Malaysia for 15 years, beginning in 1996. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no later than six months after the date of exporta- tion. Export proceeds must be received in foreign currency. Exporters are allowed to retain their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks with an overnight limit of between $1 million and $10 million, or any larger approved amount. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports of rubber from peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. The export of live fish is subject to preshipment inspection and, if requested, a certificate of health, a certificate of sanitation, and a certificate of origin may be issued by the De- partment of Fisheries. Veterinary examination, laboratory testing, and animal quarantine procedures, as well as accreditation of establishments/premises for export of animals and animal products are carried out by the DVSM in accordance with import requirements of importing countries. Export licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the LKIM. The shipment of live fish (including between peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requires a permit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 MALAYSIA issued by the Department of Fisheries. In accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a permit from the Department of Wildlife is required for exports of endangered species. Export licenses or permits from the FAMA are required for exports of starfruit to Western Europe, West Asia, and Hong Kong SAR; for exports of garlic to the EU; and for exports of Eksotika papaya overseas. FAMA acts on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise De- partment to endorse exports of all types of vegetables, especially to Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exports of plants, seeds, or shoots for purposes of propagation require export permits is- sued by the DO A. Exports of endangered species of plants require a permit from the DOA. Export permits and veterinary health certification from the DVSM are required for exports of animals and animal products. Export licenses (issued by the Malaysian Pineapple Indus- try Board) are required for fresh pineapple and canned pineapple products. A service charge of RM 0.184 a kilogram is imposed on exports of canned pineapple. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The primary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia may be made without restriction. Remittances to nonresidents of profits on all bona fide investments are permitted upon the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceed- ing the equivalent of RM 10,000. Remittances of interest payments do not require prior approval as long as such payments are in accordance with the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule specified in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must undertake all purchases and sales of ringgit securities through author- ized depository institutions. Effective February 1, 2001, nonresident sellers of Malay- sian securities may repatriate profits free of levy if the profits are repatriated more than 12 months from the month the profits are realized. Before this date, a graduated system of exit levies was in place: for investments made prior to February 15,1999, capital was lev- ied at 30% if repatriated within 7 months after entry; at 20% if repatriated between 7 and 9 months after entry; and at 10% if repatriated 9 to 12 months after entry. Capital repatri- ated more than one year after entry was not levied. For investments made on or after Febru- ary 15, 1999, the original capital was not levied, but the repatriated capital gains arising from portfolio investments were as follows: capital gains repatriated within 12 months after the gain was realized were levied at 30%, and for those repatriated after more than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 581 12 months at 10%. Nonresident sellers of Malaysian securities may repatriate the proceeds at any time. Effective May 1, 2001, the standard 10% exit levy on profits arising from port- folio investments repatriated within one year of realization was abolished. Issuance of ringgit securities by nonresidents requires approval, but proceeds from the sale of these securities may be repatriated at any time. Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply for transactions valued at less than RM 10,000; but for those amounting to RM 10,000 or more, prior approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents No exchange controls apply to residents on the sale of securities abroad. However, resi- dents must obtain approval to issue securities abroad. Approval is given if the proceeds associated with these issues are used to finance productive activities, particularly for pro- jects that generate foreign exchange earnings or save on the fu ture outflow of foreign ex- change through the production of import substitution goods. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issuance by nonresidents requires approval. When interest on bonds is paid to a nonresident investor, the issuer is required to deduct a withholding tax—currently at a rate of 15%— within one month of paying or crediting the interest, whichever is earlier. Issuance by nonresidents requires approval. When unlisted ringgit debt securities are of- fered to a domestic lead arranger or an authorized depository institution/facility, an agent must be appointed to undertake all sales and purchases of debt securities. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Primary offerings or issuance by residents requires approval. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents When residents issue money market instruments abroad, it is considered to be obtaining credit facilities. Residents are permitted to obtain credit facilities in foreign currency only up to the equivalent of RM 5 million. For amounts exceeding this, prior approval is re- quired. Approval is given for foreign currency credit facilities raised on reasonable terms to finance productive activities, particularly for projects that generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the external debt so created. When the aggregate amount exceeds the equivalent of RM 1 million, the resident must provide information on the credit facilities. There is no control on the sale of Malaysian securities in the country by nonresidents and there is no control on the repatriation abroad of proceeds from such sales (effective May 1, 2001, the 10% exit levy on profits from investments made after February 15, 1999, held on a portfolio basis was abolished). However, issuance requires approval. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply, although transactions valued at RM 10,000 or more require prior BNM approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents are generally required to obtain approval from the Securities Commission (SC) to make available, offer for subscription or purchase, or issue an invitation to subscribe to or purchase securities of a public company abroad. However, approval is not required for residents to issue unit trust schemes abroad. On June 1, 2001, the Commodity and Monetary Exchange of Malaysia and the KLSE were merged to form the Malaysian Derivatives Exchange (MDEX). Also effective that date, there are no controls on the trading of futures and options by nonresidents on the MDEX. Prior to that date, capital transfers for the purpose of trading in derivatives in the Commod- ity and Monetary Exchange of Malaysia and the Kuala Lumpur Options and Financial Fu- tures Exchanges by nonresidents did not require approval for transactions conducted through a designated external account. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of certain non-exchange traded derivatives by nonresidents requires approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 MALAYSIA Purchase abroad by residents A resident must obtain permission to make payments to a nonresident for any spot or for- ward contract or interest rate futures not transacted at a futures exchange in Malaysia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents must obtain permission to issue and to sell financial instruments abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Residents are freely allowed to obtain trade credit terms extended by a supplier for all types of goods and services. However, credit terms extended by a nonresident supplier for capital goods for periods longer than 12 months are considered as foreign-currency credit facilities. Further, approval is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of RM 5 million. No controls apply to credits of less than RM 10,000 granted by residents in foreign currency or ringgit to nonresidents. Resident stockbroking companies may extend margin financing facilities to nonresident clients for the purchase of shares listed on the KLSE, provided that they comply with all relevant KLSE rules. Effective June 13, 2001, resident insurance companies may extend ringgit policy loans to nonresident policy holders in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies. The amount of ringgit loans extended may not exceed the policy's attained cash surrender value and may be for the duration of the policies. Effective July 10, 2001, resident financial institutions may extend ringgit loans to nonresi- dents to finance the purchase or construction of any immovable property in Malaysia (ex- cluding financing for purchases of land only) up to a maximum of three property loans in aggregate. The property may not be for a nonresident's own use, however. Banking institutions may extend ringgit loans to nonresidents up to an aggregate amount of RM 200,000 for purposes other than financing immovable properties in Malaysia. Resident commercial banks may extend to nonresident stockbroking companies and global custodian banks intraday ringgit credit facilities in aggregate not exceeding RM 200 million and overnight credit facilities in aggregate not exceeding RM 10 million for financing of funding gaps arising from unforeseen or inadvertent technical delays in relation to settle- ment of trades on the KLSE. The overnight limit extended for a transaction is limited to three working days, after which the facility has to be repaid. Residents are permitted to obtain total credit in foreign currency of up to RM 5 million from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Larger amounts require prior approval. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresidents. Residents are permitted to obtain guarantees, although financial guarantees over the equiva- lent of RM 5 million require COFE notification. Any payment to a nonresident in relation to or as a consequence of the guarantee must be made in foreign currency. Residents are permitted to obtain financial guarantees, provided the aggregate amount of credit facility, including the financial guarantee, does not exceed RM 5 million. There is, however, no control on the amount of financial guarantee to be obtained from offshore banks in Labuan. In all cases, all payments related to the guarantees are made in foreign currency; otherwise, approval is required. Investments abroad exceeding RM 10,000 in any form require approval. Controls are imposed on equity shares in line with the national economic policy. The fol- lowing inward investments require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 583 group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assis- tance arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following circumstances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the rele- vant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, a foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new sub- scription by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities increases to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian com- pany to more than RM 5 million on incorporation means that the holdings of foreign enti- ties constitute more than 15% of the voting power, or the joint holdings of several foreign entities constitute 30% or more of the voting power of the company concerned. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the per- centage of production exported, whether high-technology products are purchased, or whether priority products are produced for the domestic market. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is permitted. Multimedia Super Corridor status companies are allowed to have 100% foreign equity. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The proceeds of investments by nonresidents may be repatriated freely, although amounts exceeding RM 10,000 require notification for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The regulations governing purchases of shares or other securities of a participating nature abroad by residents apply. Effective April 25, 2001, limitations and conditions imposed on purchases of residential, shop lot, commercial, and office space by foreigners were liberalized, provided that the purchase price is more than RM 250,000. Financing for such acquisitions may be obtained from financial institutions outside of or within Malaysia and may be made by foreign ind i- viduals in their own capacity without incorporating a Malaysian entity. By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Only authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in for- eign currency from nonresidents. Other financial institutions are subject to prior approval if the aggregate amount exceeds RM 5 m i l l ion. Only authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are permitted to maintain accounts abroad. Other credit institutions require approval to maintain these accounts. Authorized dealers are allowed to extend credit facilities in foreign currency to nonresi- dents. A banking institution is, however, allowed to extend credit in ringgit: (1) to nonresi- dents, other than banks or stockbroking companies, up to an aggregate of RM 200,000 for any purpose except to finance the acquisition or development of immovable property in Malaysia; (2) to nonresidents, up to three property loans to finance the purchase or con- struction of immovable property in Malaysia (excluding financing for the purchase of land only); and (3) to nonresident stockbroking companies and nonresident global custodian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 MALAYSIA banks for up to RM 200 million in intraday ringgit credit facilities or RM 10 million in overnight credit facilities to finance funding gaps arising from unanticipated or inadvertent technical delays for trades made on the KLSE. The extension of loans in ringgit to nonresidents exceeding these amounts or for purposes other than those stipulated above requires prior approval. Banking institutions are not allowed to extend loans in ringgit to any foreign bank or for- eign stockbroking company for purposes other than those stipulated above. Stockbroking companies are allowed to extend margin financing facilities to nonresident clients for the purchase of shares listed on the KLSE, subject to compliance with KLSE rules. Authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. A resident borrower, however, requires prior approval if total aggregate borrowing exceeds the equivalent of RM 5 million. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are allowed, subject to the net open position limit of authorized dealers and approved merchant banks. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Investment abroad by authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are subject to net open position limits. Foreigners are generally limited to an aggregate participation of not more than 30% equity interest in a bank. Open foreign exchange position limits The criteria in determining banks' net overnight foreign currency open position limits are based on a matrix that takes into account their shareholders' funds and dealing capacity. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The SC does not prescribe or dictate limits on the investment portfolio of institutional investors in Malaysian securities that are issued by nonresidents. Rather, these limits are determined by the unit trust management companies in relation to the managed portfolios. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurers are required to support their margin of solvency (which is defined to include liabilities) with admitted assets as specified by the BNM. The rules allow a licensed insurer to hold for investment purposes in respect of its Malay- sian insurance fund up to a maximum of 5% of its margin of solvency in assets of a foreign jurisdiction with a sovereign rating that is not lower than the sovereign rating of Malaysia. However, investment in any one foreign jurisdiction is restricted to 2% of its margin of solvency. A licensed insurer is also allowed to hold assets of a foreign jurisdiction where it is carrying on business to enable it to meet its foreign liabilities in that jurisdiction. The guidelines on unit trust funds issued by the SC in 1997 allow for unit trust schemes to include investments in foreign securities traded in or under the rules of a foreign market, although this requires prior approval from the BNM, the SC, and other relevant authorities. Employee Provident Fund (EPF) investment in foreign securities in amounts exceeding RM 10,000 is subject to BNM approval. The EPF is required to invest a minimum of 50% of its annual investable funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total investment. Unit trust schemes—as prescribed in the guidelines on unit trust funds —are subject to cer- tain rules regarding diversification of assets, including limits on investments in unlisted securities, other collective investment schemes, and participation in futures contracts. In addition, there are provisions on investment limits —including rules on investments in secu- rities of single issuers and of groups of companies, as well as in classes of securities—to ensure that the schemes have adequate spread and concentration of investments. There are no controls on foreign firms trading in the corporate debt, equity, and deriva- tive markets. Under FIC guidelines, however, the following should be observed: (1) any proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 585 associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign inter- ests; and (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value, whether by Malaysians or foreign interests, require approval. Foreign companies with no substantial business operations in Malaysia are not normally granted listing on the local stock exchange. Changes During 2001 November 1. The Malaysian authorities notified the IMF of a circular instructing financial institutions to freeze the accounts of the Taliban. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. December 24. The Malaysian authorities notified the IMF of a circular instructing financial institutions to freeze the accounts of individuals and economic entities associated with ter- rorism, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. July 18. External accounts were allowed to be funded with (1) sales of foreign currency and ringgit assets in Malaysia; (2) salaries, wages, rentals, commissions, interest, and profits or dividends; (3) proceeds from approved ringgit credit facilities extended by residents and/or ringgit credit facilities extended in accordance with the terms and conditions of employ- ment; (4) proceeds from repayment of approved ringgit loans; and (5) deposits of ringgit notes up to RM 10,000 a day and transfers from another external account of the same ac- count holder of any amount. July 18. External accounts were allowed to be used to make (1) payments for (i) purchases of foreign currency and ringgit assets in Malaysia; (ii) administrative and statutory ex- penses incurred in Malaysia; and (iii) goods and services in Malaysia; (2) loans to staff in Malaysia in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment; (3) nonfmancial guarantees (when called upon); (4) repayments of permitted ringgit loans; and (5) ringgit cash withdrawals. November 26. Transfers of funds from an account for any purpose were permitted, up to an aggregate of RM 5,000 a person/company a bank a day through ATM cards, Internet banking, or ringgit checks. January 11. All radio communications apparatus capable of telecommunication in fre- quency bands of less than 3,000 GHz required a license from the Standard and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia, except for receivers designed for use in broadcasting ser- vices and radio communications apparatus that have a valid license issued by the telecom- munication authority of any country or an international automatic roaming card issued by a licensed operator. February 1. Nonresident sellers of Malaysian securities were allowed to repatriate profits free of levy if the profits are repatriated more than 12 months from the month the profits are realized. May 1. The standard 10% levy imposed on profits arising from portfolio investments repatriated within one year of realization was abolished. Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments June 1. All controls on the trading of futures and options by nonresidents on the MDEX were eliminated. Controls on credit operations June 1. The Commodity and Monetary Exchange of Malaysia and the KLSE were merged to form the MDEX. June 13. Resident insurance companies were allowed to extend ringgit policy loans to non- resident policy holders in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies. The amount of ringgit loans extended may not exceed the policy's attained cash surrender value and may be for the duration of the policies. July 10. Resident financial institutions were allowed to extend ringgit loans to nonresidents to finance the purchase or construction of any immovable property in Malaysia (excluding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MALAYSIA Controls on real estate transactions financing for purchases of land only) up to a maximum of three property loans in aggregate. April 25. Limitations and conditions imposed on purchases of residential, shop lot, commercial, and office space by foreigners were liberalized, provided that the purchase price is more than RM 250,000. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 22. The Malaysian authorities notified the IMF of an expanded circular instructing financial institutions to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of individuals and economic entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the rele- vant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian rufiyaa. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The rufiyaa has been pegged to the dollar since 1994. Effective July 25, 2001, the exchange rate was devalued to Rf 12.80 per $1 from Rf 11.77 per $1. The Maldives Monetary Au- thority (MMA) buys and sells currency at a spread of Rf 0.10, within which commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers must also operate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. n.a. n.a. No. No. Yes. No. Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 587 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 588 MALDIVES Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may be conducted only after registration with and obtaining licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industries (MTI). Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All goods may be imported under an OGL system. Licenses are issued on application. All private sector imports of rice, wheat flour, and sugar are subject to a quota. Prohibitions are imposed on imports in accordance with UN sanctions. Duties are levied on all products other than rice, flour, and sugar. The tariff structure has nine bands, ranging from zero for staple goods to 100% for cars and 200% for plastic bags, with an estimated average nominal duty rate of about 20%. Cigarettes are subject to a specific rate of Rf 0.30 a cigarette or Rf 6 a package. The tariff rate on electronic equipment is 5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are issued by the MTI. The private sector may export most products, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Exports of aquarium fish are subject to quota. Exports and reexports o f f i sh and fish products are exempt from duties. A 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 589 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Although no law prohibits these purchases, there is a control on purchases by nonresidents of shares placed by some companies that have issued their securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except commercial banks, natural and juridical persons may not extend credit and charge interest without the approval of the MMA. However, locally incorporated offshore banks are allowed to extend financial credits to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments require prior approval from the government. Foreign investors are required to provide at least 75% of their capital investment in cash or goods financed from outside Maldives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions No. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is not allowed in Maldives. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Banks may lend up to 25% of the initial capital investment made by foreign investors. Interest rate control exists only in respect of local currency, where the annual rate of inter- est chargeable on loans and advances may not exceed 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 590 MALDIVES Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. No. Exchange arrangement July 25. The exchange rate was devalued to Rf 12.80 per $1 from Rf 11.77 per $1. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris for- eign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax There is no exchange tax, but foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp duty. In addition, banks charge a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover with the prior authorization of the MOF to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. For cer- tain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Mali is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC mem- bers and the Comoros) are made in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002) or the currency of any other Operations Account country. All transactions among residents must be conducted in domestic currency. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. There is a sub-regional clearing arrangement under WAMA. All payments relating to cur- rent transactions may be effected under this arrangement, except for some transactions identified by the committee of governors of the West African Central Bank. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO are residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. No. No. Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the MOF, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. 591 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MALI Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require authorization from the MOF. The following are ex- empt from this requirement: (1) gold imported or exported by the MOF or the BCEAO; (2) manufactured articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles; and (3) gold articles with a combined weight of up to 500 grams imported or exported by travelers. The export of BCEAO banknotes is free of restrictions, but the BCEAO does not repurchase exported banknotes. Nonresidents may reexport foreign banknotes in amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 500,000, but documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase through a means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks is required. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may export an amount up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person in foreign currency. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Prior MOF authorization is required to open these accounts. Exchange regulations do not provide information on the opening of these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes or by a cen- tral bank with an operating account at the French Treasury. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the authorization of the MOF and BCEAO concurrence. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 593 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements A domiciliation requirement exists for all imports exceeding CFAF 5 million. Preshipment inspection An inspection for quality and price is required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import licensing requirements, but imports are required to be registered and permits are issued automatically. Import taxes and/or tariffs The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a customs duty of up to 5% and a customs service fee of 5%. Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and are based on c.i.f. values. Petroleum is subject to a variable levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5% to 55%, which have been temporarily suspended since 1994. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export pro- ceeds, excluding proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All exports exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion must be domiciled, except for transfers made through the intermediation of the post administration, exports without payments in- volved, and certain special exports. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require only a certificate of registration. There are no restrictions on the value or quantity of exports. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments of invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Supporting documents are not required for payments for invisibles to other countries under CFAF 300,000. Trade- related payments above this amount are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Investment-related payments Authorized banks may transfer, on their own responsibility, profit payments based on supporting documentation. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Returning resident travelers must surrender unspent foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Payment of study abroad costs and medical expenses are allowed freely on the basis of supporting documents. The transfer of salaries is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreign national's country of nationality. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 594 MALI Credit card use abroad Credit cards issued by specialized resident financial intermediaries and authorized banks may be used abroad. Other payments Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU member countries, must be surrendered within one month after the due date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Capital transactions be- tween Mali and France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be effected freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue, marketing, and sale of any type of securities of foreign governments, public entities, foreign companies, or international institutions require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to transfer these securities abroad. If the purpose of these transactions is to place Malian resident institutions under foreign control, the foreign investors concerned are required to report in advance to the MOF. The same rule applies to disinvestments. Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be surrendered to an authorized domestic bank. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be made freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization from the MOF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell money market instruments abroad. Sales constituting disinvest- ment are subject to prior disclosure. The foreign currency proceeds of such sales or disin- vestment must be surrendered to a licensed banking intermediary. The issue abroad of money market instruments by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior MOF authorization is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent, are governed by the regulations gener- ally applicable to securities and investments. Residents are allowed to purchase abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 595 call and put options in commodities and securities, subject to observance of all regulations governing these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Residents may not purchase commodities or securities abroad with a view to delivering them locally within the context of a put option contract. However, an asset bought locally for a put option contract may be delivered abroad to satisfy the contract. Commercial credits Special controls apply for borrowing outside the BCEAO. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The granting of these credits is subject to the following provisions: (1) any claims gener- ated by the export of goods must be collected, and the corresponding amounts must be repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the due date of the payment stipulated in the commercial contract. In principle, the grace period should not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the goods at their destination; and (2) any claims generated by the provision of services must also be collected and then surrendered on the exchange market within one month of the due date of the payment, for which no limit is set. There are no controls on the granting of these credits; their repayment is generally author- ized, subject to the licensed intermediary being presented with documentation attesting to the authenticity of the commercial transaction or to the provision of services. The granting of financial credits is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose requires prior MOF approval. There are no controls on these credits. However, if these transactions are carried out be- tween a direct investment enterprise established in Mali and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investment and, as a result, are subject to prior disclosure to the MOF for statistical purposes. The granting of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad requires an exchange permit approved by the MOF. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All outward investments by residents require the prior authorization of the MOF. These investments may be financed up to 75% by external borrowing. MOF authorization is not needed for purchases of foreign securities issued or sold in WAEMU member states if the issue or sale by nonresidents has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investments between WAEMU member states are free, but they must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Liquidation of a resident's foreign investments must be reported for information purposes to the MOF. Reinvestment of the proceeds of liquidation requires the ministry's prior au- thorization. If the reinvestment was not authorized, the proceeds of liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Foreign investments may be transferred freely from Mali and must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Sale locally by nonresidents The proceeds of the sale or liquidation of foreign direct investment or the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs, upon presenta- tion of supporting documentation to an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 596 MALI Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Loans contracted by residents with nonresidents for domestic use must be transacted through authorized intermediaries in all cases, unless specifically exempted by the MOF. The authorized intermediaries ensure the proper execution of the transaction. All borrowing from nonresidents is subject to prior MOF authorization. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Payments relating to inheritances and legacies are generally authorized. Payments in con- nection with gifts or donations, however, require the prior authorization of the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants acquiring resident status must obtain the prior authorization of the MOF for the payment of debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are allowed upon presentation of proof of emigration to the MOF. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Licensed intermediaries are free to borrow abroad. Other credit institutions are governed by general provisions applicable to other residents. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO is required for loans and financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO is required for loans and financial credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Insurance Market Conference. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 597 Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese lira. Malta has 23 denominations of gold coins that are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control The exchange rate of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies comprising the dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling. Unless market conditions indicate otherwise, a variable spread of approximately 0.125% is applied to the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and credit and financial institutions. These transactions may be conducted in dol- lars, euros, or pounds sterling, normally in amounts of not less than Lm 150,000. The CBM also quotes rates for other currencies based on international market rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates that authorized dealers may quote in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. The CBM may provide forward cover directly to government departments and public sector agencies. The CBM may also engage in forward transactions with credit institutions that are permitted to provide forward cover to both private and public sector customers. For- ward rates are based on interest rate differentials between domestic and international money market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is a banking agreement with Libya operating through the respective central banks to clear payments in connection with commercial transactions between the two countries. Outstanding balances are settled in convertible currencies at the end of each calendar quarter. The CBM, as agent for the MOF, administers exchange controls. In turn, the CBM has delegated authority to approve most bona fide current and capital account transactions to authorized dealers. The MOF has delegated responsibility for the approval of inward foreign direct investment to the Malta Financial Services Center (MFSC), which is the single regulator of financial services in Malta and is also responsible for the registration of companies. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 599 In accordance with UN sanctions Certain restrictions on payments and transfers to Angola, Georgia, Iraq, Kosovo, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remain in force in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Similar restrictions also apply to payments and transfers to the Taliban. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Trade in unrefined gold and gold for industrial use may be undertaken only by licensed gold dealers in accordance with the Gold (Control) Regulations (1996). Residents are per- mitted to hold or acquire manufactured articles of gold, including coins. There are no controls on exports or imports of gold, but only licensed dealers are permitted to trade in unrefined gold or gold for industrial use. Effective January 1, 2001, residents and nonresidents may export up to Lm 1,000 a person (increased from Lm 25). Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount they brought into the country. Effective January 1, 2001, resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency, but amounts exceeding Lm 10,000 (effective January 1, 2002, Lm 15,000) must be reported to the CBM. Residents may export foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 in connection with the purchase and importation of goods into Malta. Effective January 1, 2001, residents and nonresidents may import up to Lm 1,000 a person (increased from Lm 50). Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Effective January 1, 2001, resident individuals may invest up to Lm 30,000 (previously Lm 15,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency, including foreign securities (effective January 1, 2002, this limit was increased to Lm 50,000). Effective January 1, 2001, residents may also hold up to Lm 10,000 (previ- ously Lm 2,500) in demand deposit accounts (effective January 1,2002, this limit was in- creased to Lm 15,000). Credit balances in these accounts may be debited with payments in foreign currency related to current account transactions. Effective January 1, 2001, export companies may deposit export proceeds in these accounts for a maximum period of one year. Effective January 1, 2001, resident businesses in the retailing sector may hold up to Lm 10,000 (previously Lm 2,500) in foreign currency savings and time deposit accounts, on the condition that the funds be used for business activities and payments to nonresidents in connection with current account transactions. Effective January 1, 2002, this limit has been increased to Lm 15,000. Approval is required to open these accounts. Residents are permitted to open savings and time deposit accounts with nonresident bank- ing institutions and, effective January 1, 2001, may deposit in such accounts a maximum amount of Lm 30,000 a year (previously Lm 15,000). Effective January 1,2002, the maxi- mum amount was raised to Lm 50,000. Approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 600 MALTA Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is allowed freely for all current transactions and permitted capital transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources or with proceeds from permitted activities carried out in Malta. Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing foreign exchange accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Balances in blocked accounts usually represent funds originating from the liquidation of investments in real estate in Malta. These balances are retained temporarily until the rele- vant legal and financial procedures have been completed. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports may be made freely, provided that supporting docu- ments—including th e customs entry form (for imports with a minimum value of Lm 20,000) and, in some cases, an import license—are submitted to an authorized dealer. Domiciliation requirements Import payments must be effected through authorized dealers. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Where import licenses are required, they must be presented to an authorized dealer before payments may be effected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The Commerce Division of the Ministry for Economic Services administers certain import controls in accordance with the Importation (Control) Regulations. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Licenses are required only for imports of items that need clearance for health, safety, secu- rity, and environmental reasons, as well as for certain items, such as fresh and frozen fish, handmade lace, and gold and silver filigree. All products not on the negative list may be imported without a license. Imports originating from non-EU countries may be subject to import duties. Additionally, a number of imports are subject to protective levies. Imports of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, and certain petroleum products are subject to state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be received within six months of shipment. Effective January 1, 2001, this period was extended to one year. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized credit and financial institutions. However, exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized dealers for up to six months to make import payments connected with their ex- porting business. Effective January 1,2001, this retention period was extended to one year. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must submit a quarterly report for statistical purposes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Exports of works of art and certain essential goods require a license. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 601 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles may be made freely, but supporting documents must be presented to authorized credit and financial institutions before payment is effected. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Quantitative limits There are no limits on payments for travel, but exports of more than Lm 15,000 in bank- notes a traveler a trip must be declared to an authorized dealer. Effective January 1,2001, the equivalent of Lm 10,000 a trip (previously Lm 5,000) was allowed. Effective January 1, 2002, this limit was increased to Lm 15,000 a trip. Amounts exceeding this limit require CBM notification. Most payments must be supported by relevant documentation. Effective January 1, 2001, the annual limit each resident may transfer abroad to other family members is Lm 10,000 (previously Lm 5,000). Remittances above this limit require exchange control approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be received within six months of payment and surrendered to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds Funds deposited in foreign currency accounts may not be used for capital transactions. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to purchase securities that are listed on the Malta Stock Ex- change (MSE). However, approval must be obtained from the MFSC to purchase or acquire unlisted securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These are permitted, but prior notification to the MFSC is required for prudential reasons. Purchase abroad by residents Credit institutions and insurance companies are permitted to purchase these instruments abroad, subject to prudential limits. Fund management companies are permitted to invest up to 10% of the funds they collect from their residential customers. Effective January 1, 2001, individuals and nonflnancial companies are permitted to invest abroad up to Lm 30,000 (previously Lm 15,000) a year. Effective January 1, 2002, this limit has been increased to Lm 50,000. Any investment above this amount requires CBM approval. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. In addi- tion, the approval of the CBM is required if the money market investment has an original maturity of under three months. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 MALTA Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment All of these transactions require CBM approval. Export proceeds must be received within one year of shipment, unless otherwise authorized. Effective January 1, 2001, this limit on funds borrowed by nonresidents was lifted. Loan facilities may now be provided if they have a maturity of more than one year. Lending for a maturity of less than one year requires CBM approval. Residents are permitted to borrow from nonresidents as long as the original maturity period of the borrowing exceeds one year. Borrowings for periods of one year or less require CBM approval. These transactions are permitted if the underlying transaction may be made freely under the current exchange control regulations. Effective January 1, 2001, all limits on the amount that resident individuals may transfer abroad for direct investment purposes were removed. Approval for such investment, how- ever, remains subject to the condition that the resident acquire a controlling interest in the overseas company. Details of the condition of the investment must be reported to the CBM for statistical purposes. All applications for establishing companies with nonresident participation are subject to MFSC approval. However, direct investment by nonresidents is usually permitted in all sectors except real estate, wholesale retail trade, and public utilities. Nonresident partici- pation may not exceed 50% of equity in businesses involved in information technology services. Controls on liquidation of direct investment These transactions are usually permitted, but documentary evidence of the original investment must be submitted to the MFSC. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Effective January 1, 2001, residents are allowed to invest up to Lm 150,000 a year in real estate abroad, subject to the presentation of documentation to the CBM (previously Lm 50,000). Residents are also allowed to purchase real estate overseas using funds al- ready held in portfolio investments abroad. Effective January 1, 2002, investments in real estate abroad by residents may be made without restriction. All applications for real estate acquisition by nonresidents require MOF approval. Nonresi- dents may acquire immovable property in Malta for their own residence (subject to MOF approval), on the conditions that the funds originate from overseas and that the cost of the property to be acquired exceeds Lm 30,000 in the case of a single residence and Lm 50,000 in the case of any other residence. Nonresidents may acquire more than one property in specially designated areas. Nonresidents are not allowed to engage in real estate property transactions, except for sales of properties that were acquired with the approval of the MOF. Effective January 1, 2001, loans extended by residents to nonresidents are subject to the condition that the lending is for maturities of one year or longer. Lending by residents to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad MALTA 603 nonresidents for maturity periods of less than one year requires CBM approval. Reporting is required in all cases for statistical purposes. Effective January 1, 2001, residents are permitted to borrow from nonresidents if the origi- nal maturity exceeds one year. Borrowings for periods of one year or less require CBM approval. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents for maturity periods of less than one year requires CBM approval. Effective January 1, 2001, the limit on gifts has been increased to Lm 10,000 from Lm 2,500. There are no limits on endowments, inheritances, and legacies, although docu- mentary evidence must be submitted to an authorized dealer. Also effective this date, all controls on payments by residents in respect of endowments to bona fide foreign institu- tions (educational, charitable, cultural, etc.) were removed, and all transfers by resident persons for dowry payments have been liberalized. Effective January 1, 2001, all controls on payments in connection with the settlement of debt by immigrants in their previous country of residence have been removed. Effective January 1, 2001, all limits on the amount of transfers of assets by residents in the event of emigration have been lifted. Effective January 1, 2001, credit and financial institutions are permitted to borrow from nonresident sources if the maturity period of the borrowings exceeds one year (previously three years). Borrowings for periods of one year or less require CBM approval. All borrow- ings must be reported to the CBM. Maintenance of accounts abroad Credit and financial institutions may hold accounts for both liquidity and investment purposes, subject to prudential regulations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending and purchases of securities abroad are permitted, subject to prudential regulations regarding exposure limits. Resident credit and financial institutions may also lend any amount to nonresidents in local currency. Effective January 1, 2001, loan facilities may be provided for any purpose, including the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that the original maturity of the lending exceeds one year. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is permitted, subject to prudential regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits This is permitted, subject to prudential regulations governing foreign currency exposure. Open foreign exchange position limits are allowed, subject to prudential regulations governing foreign currency exposure. Provisions specific to institutional investors Overseas portfolio investments by insurance companies are fu l ly liberalized, but remain subject to prudential regulations on foreign currency exposure. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Investment management companies are permitted to invest, without limit, eligible funds originating from both resident and nonresident sources abroad. Effective January 1, 2001, collective investment fund companies that collect funds in local currency from residents with the aim of investing in local currency-denominated securities on the local market may invest up to a maximum of 5% of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets. Effective January 1, 2002, this limit has been increased to 10%. There are no limits, however, on the amounts that may be invested by resident shareholders' funds. The regulations governing securities issued by nonresidents apply. The regulations governing securities issued by nonresidents apply. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 604 MALTA Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The amount in domestic currency that residents and nonresidents may import or export was increased to Lm 1,000 from Lm 25 a person (for exports) and Lm 50 a person (for imports). Resident accounts January 1. Residents were allowed to export up to Lm 10,000 in foreign currency a trip (previously Lm 5,000). January 1. Resident individuals were allowed to invest up to Lm 30,000 (previously, Lm 15,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. January L Residents were allowed to hold up to Lm 10,000 (previously Lm 2,500) in demand deposit accounts, provided that the fimds originated from an external source. January 1. Export-oriented companies were allowed to deposit export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with authorized dealers for a maximum period of one year (previously six months). January L Resident businesses in the retailing sector were allowed to hold up to Lm 10,000 (previously Lm 2,500) in foreign currency savings and time deposits, subject to conditions. Exports and export proceeds January L The period for which exporters in the manufacturing sector may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts was extended to one year from six months. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L Residents were entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 10,000 a trip (previously Lm 5,000). If the amount exceeds Lm 10,000, CBM notification is required. January L The annual limit each resident may transfer abroad to other family members was raised to Lm 10,000 from Lm 5,000 an adult a year. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The limit on foreign portfolio investments for an adult resident was raised to Lm 30,000 from Lm 15,000 a year. Controls on credit operations January L The limits on funds borrowed by nonresidents was lifted. Loan facilities were allowed to be provided for any onshore purpose, including the purchase of securities in the domestic capital market, provided that such securities have maturities of more than one year. Controls on real estate transactions January L The limit on the amount that residents may invest in real estate abroad was raised to Lm 150,000 a year from Lm 50,000. Controls on personal capital movements January L Loans extended by residents to nonresidents or by nonresidents to residents were made subject to the condition that such lending be for maturities of one year or longer. January L The limit on gifts was increased to Lm 10,000, all controls on payments by resi- dents in respect of endowments to bona fide foreign institutions (educational, charitable, cultural, etc.) were removed, and all transfers by resident persons for dowry payments were liberalized. January L All limits on the amount of assets that emigrating residents may transfer at the time of their establishment or during their period of stay abroad were lifted. January L All controls on payments in connection with settlements of debt by immigrants in their previous country of residence were removed. January L Borrowing and loan facilities were permitted to be provided for any onshore purpose, including the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that such facilities have a maturity of over one year. January L The maturity period for loans granted to resident banks and financial institutions from nonresident financial institutions was reduced to one year or more from three years or more. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 605 Provisions specific to institutional investors January 1. Collective investment fund companies were permitted to invest up to a maxi- mum of 5% of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Residents were allowed to export up to Lm 15,000 in foreign currency a trip (previously Lm 10,000). Changes During 2002 Resident accounts January 1. Resident businesses in the retailing sector were allowed to hold up to Lm 15,000 (previously Lm 10,000) in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign ex- change, subject to conditions. January L Residents were allowed to hold up to Lm 15,000 (previously Lm 10,000) in demand deposit accounts with authorized dealers, provided that the funds originated from abroad. January 1. Resident individuals were allowed to invest up to Lm 50,000 (previously Lm 30,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Residents were entitled to a travel allowance equivalent to Lm 15,000 a trip (previously Lm 10,000). Amounts exceeding Lm 15,000 require CBM notification. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The limit on foreign portfolio investments denominated in foreign currencies was raised to Lm 50,000 from Lm 30,000 an adult resident a year. Controls on real estate transactions January L Investments in real estate abroad by residents were fully liberalized. Controls on personal capital movements January 1. The granting of guarantees by residents to nonresidents was fully liberalized. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L The amount of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets that collective investment fund companies were permitted to invest was increased to 10% from 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory Banking Commissioner. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in dollars or in any other convertible currency. The Marshall Islands participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 30% of deposits received from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent a depositor from transferring deposits abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. 606 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 607 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports are not subject to licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied on imports. Ad valorem duties range from 5% to 150%. Most items are subject to an 8% tariff rate, while higher rates are applied to motor vehicles (15%), gasoline (20%), and alcoholic drinks (25%). Specific duties are applied to motor vehicles whose value cannot be determined, cigarettes and other tobacco products (excluding cigars, which have a tariff rate of 150%), soft drinks, beer, wine, and spirits. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the government-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 608 MARSHALL ISLANDS Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Foreign investors are required to submit applications to the Registrar of Corporations and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners are prohibited from owning land, but investors may obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years with an option to renew on land needed for their business. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 19, 1999. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian ouguiya. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The daily official exchange rate is set to the rate determined in the Extended Exchange Market (EMM) session of the previous day. The Central Bank of Mauritania (CBM) decides the extent of its intervention in the EMM based on observed and foreseeable market pressures; the reserve accumulation target; and the actual rates observed in transactions recorded in the preceding days by banks and ex- change bureaus. Based on the central rate, the CBM uses a fixed margin of ±0.375% to obtain bid and offer rates, which are used in all CBM foreign exchange-ouguiya transac- tions with the treasury. All CBM foreign exchange transactions with banks and foreign exchange bureaus are carried in the EMM sessions. Effective November 27,2001, the $20,000 ceiling on exchange bureaus' participation in the EMM was eliminated. Banks and exchange bureaus may freely determine the bid and offer rates and commissions they use in transactions with their customers and among themselves. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances through the Postal Administration by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Yes. An inoperative arrangement exists within the framework of the Arab Maghreb Union. Administration of control is vested in the CBM, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Exchange control authority to approve current interna- tional transactions is delegated to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The requirement that imports be registered with the CBM for statistical purposes has been abol- ished; the Socie'te' g6n6rale de surveillance (SGS) now provides the CBM with copies of import documentation. Effective April 22, 2001, the requirements for opening exchange bureaus were liberalized. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Private Yes. 609 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 MAURITANIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency All imports and exports of gold, except manufactured articles containing small quantities of gold, require prior authorization from the CBM. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes and coins. Residents are authorized to export foreign exchange obtained legally and must provide documentation to prove the source. Nonresident foreign nationals may freely export pay- ment instruments denominated in foreign currencies. Nonresidents are free to export for- eign exchange; however, if they wish to repurchase amounts previously surrendered in exchange for ouguiyas, they must present a receipt of sale of foreign exchange from a bank or an exchange bureau. They are exempt from this formality for any sum not exceeding the equivalent of $200. Nonresident holders of foreign accounts denominated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiyas and maintained in a licensed banking intermediary may export any amount of traveler's checks denominated in foreign currencies or foreign banknotes withdrawn from foreign exchange accounts. Imports are not allowed. Residents and nonresidents of Mauritania may import foreign banknotes freely, and resi- dents may deposit them in foreign exchange accounts at licensed intermediary banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Effective January 5, 2001, residents may open accounts denominated in convertible foreign currencies, and these accounts may be credited and debited freely. Prior to this date, ex- porters could open these accounts in Mauritanian banks only to deposit the portion of their export proceeds that they are authorized to retain, and these accounts could be debited for payment of current operations or for sale of foreign exchange to the market. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may open freely accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency New convertible accounts in domestic currency may not be opened. Those that existed prior to 2000 may be operated in accordance with the provisions of Circular GR/005/2000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Licensed intermediary banks may operate freely nonresident convertible accounts and tran- sit accounts on behalf of nonresident individuals and juridical persons. Nonresident con- vertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers from abroad or from another foreign account; (2) proceeds from the encashment of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on an- other foreign account opened in a Mauritanian bank to the order of the account holder; (3) transfers issued by a licensed intermediary bank by order of a resident in payment of transactions authorized by the exchange control regulations; (4) undocumented transfers in ouguiyas from the holder's account up to the equivalent of $6,000 a year; and (5) proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange held in the account on the foreign exchange market (banknotes, however, whether foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered on the foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 6 11 market, funds to be transferred abroad, and withdrawals of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign currency by the holder; (2) transfers in favor of another foreign account or a resident; and (3) checks issued by the holder of the account in favor of another nonresident or a resident, and withdrawals of banknotes issued by the CBM. Transit accounts may be opened freely by resident consignees on their books in the names of shipping companies. Nonresidents may open domestic currency accounts, and balances on these accounts are freely transferable. Existing convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited in the same manner as foreign exchange accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Existing nonresident accounts in ouguiyas may be converted, but new convertible accounts may not be opened. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be inspected by the SGS before shipment. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Upon presentation of the advance import notification, the importer may purchase the for- eign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of a few goods, such as arms and alcoholic beverages, are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Four duty rates apply: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, a statistical tax of 3% is levied. Goods that are imported by some public enterprises or with external financing are exempt from all import duties. The fourth phase of the tariff reform is in effect. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Twenty percent of the export receipts of the state-owned ore company (SNIM) is to be repatriated via correspondents of the banks and exchange bureaus. Prior to June 30, 2001, when it was eliminated, a 20% surrender requirement applied to export proceeds of the SNIM. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements Effective March 29, 2001, export certificates—which must specify the quantity, value, and destination of all goods—are processed by the customs valuation office (CVO); the CBM receives a copy for information purposes. Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Some exports require an LC. Exports exceeding UM 20,000 must be domiciled. Exports of goods require only a certificate endorsed by the CVO. Yes. A tax is levied on exports o f f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for spe- cialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for shrimp and crayfish. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 612 MAURITANIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles may be effected freely. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Total or partial repayments of foreign capital invested in Mauritania, as well as capital gains therefrom, is permitted freely, in accordance with Circular GR/006/1999. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages There are controls on payments of family maintenance and alimony, but information is not available on other personal payments. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages may be transferred freely, usually through foreign exchange accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within four months. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital transactions are subject to exchange control. Outward capital transfers require CBM approval and are restricted, but inward capital transfers are normally permitted freely, al- though the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of securities of private enterprises are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The facilities for these transactions do not exist at present. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to CBM authorization. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities brokerage operations may be carried out only by residents who have received CBM approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase abroad of bonds by residents requires CBM authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 613 On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment All credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities invo lv ing resi- dents and nonresidents are controlled. The investment code (Law No. 2002-03) governs direct investments and all associated incentives and benefits. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment There are no controls on the liquidation of direct investments, and Article 5(1 a) of Law 2002-03 guarantees their transfer. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The l im i ts on commercial banks' net open foreign positions in foreign exchange are a max imum of 10% of net capital for each currency and a max imum of 20% of net capital for all currencies. Provisions specific to in s t i tu t ional investors n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 MAURITANIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts November 27. The $20,000 ceiling on exchange bureaus' participation in the EMM was eliminated. March 29. The authority to approve exports was transferred to the CVO from the CBM. April 22. The requirements for opening exchange bureaus in Mauritania were liberalized. January 5. Residents were allowed to open accounts denominated in foreign currencies, and these accounts may be credited and debited freely in convertible foreign currency. Exports and export proceeds March 29. The authority for processing export certificates was transferred to the CVO from the CBM. The CBM now receives a copy for information purposes. June 30. The 20% surrender requirement applied to export proceeds of the SNIM was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Maur i t ius is the Mauritian rupee. Gold coins issued in Maur i t ius are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Mauritian rupee is determined by supply and demand conditions. Based on additional information as to how the exchange rate is determined, the exchange rate arrangement of Mauritius was reclassified, effective June 30, 2001, to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to their clients. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Adm in is tra t ion of control International security restrictions In accordance w i th the Economic Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, no person may make or accept payments in cash in excess of MUR 350,000, except in the case of certain exempted transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In accordance w i th the Economic Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, no person may accept any payment in cash in excess of the equ iva lent of MUR 350,000 in foreign currency. Mauritius is a member of COMESA and RIFF. Yes. No. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are imposed in compliance w i th UN Security Counc il resolutions. Payments arrears No. 615 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 616 MAURITIUS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownersh ip and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as personal jewelry and ornaments. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents in Mauritius. Resi- dents may hold accounts in foreign currencies with domestic and offshore banks. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domest ic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convert ib le into foreign currency Companies and individuals may maintain accounts denominated in foreign currencies with commercial banks. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Companies and ind iv idua ls may maintain accounts denominated in foreign currencies with commercial banks. Corporations holding a category I global business license may maintain accounts in foreign currency with banks holding a class A banking license. Companies and ind iv idua ls may ma in ta in accounts denominated in Mauritian rupees w i th commercial banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F in an c ing requ irements for imports No. No. Documen ta t ion requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontar iff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Release of foreign exchange for imports of goods that are controlled for the purpose of consumer protection requires the presentation of the original import permit issued by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Most imports are admitted to Mau r i t ius under the system of OGL. Imports of potatoes and salt are subject, when necessary, to quotas. Imports of agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products require phytosanitary inspection. Imports of sugarcane are prohibited. Tariff rates range up to 80%. Certain items are subject to excise duties ranging from 15% to 360%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 617 State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products and certain types of rice and flour, and 50% of imports of cement are under state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirement s Documentation requirements Yes. No. No. Export licenses With quotas A permit is required for exports of textile products to the United States and Canada. Mauritius abides by quotas on exports of textiles and clothing to the United States and Canada under bilateral export restraint agreements. The volume of sugar exports to the EU is restricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention; that to the United States is also subject to quotas. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase by nonresidents of shares listed on the stock ex- change. However, the authorization of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Internal Affairs is required under the Noncitizens Property Restriction Act for nonresidents to purchase shares not listed on the stock exchange. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. Noncitizens acquiring property in Mauritius must obtain the prior permission of the Prime Minister and Minister of Internal A f fa i rs under the Noncitizens Property Restriction Act. The purchase must be financed by funds transferred from abroad through the banking system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 MAURITIUS Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Effective December 1, 2001, the designation "domestic banks" has been changed to "banks holding a class A banking license"; that of "offshore banks" to "banks ho ld ing a class B license"; and that of "offshore companies" to "corporations holding a category I global business license." Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic banks holding a class A banking license and offshore banks holding a class B banking license may lend to both residents and nonresidents in foreign currencies. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits The Bank of Mauritius (BOM) must approve investments in shares. Nonresidents may invest in shares of commercial banks holding a class A banking license that are listed on the Stock Exchange of Mauritius (SEM). In the case of investments in shares of banks that are not listed on the SEM, the authorization of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Internal A f fa i rs must be obtained. Holdings in excess of 15% of a bank 's capital by residents or nonresidents require approval of the BOM. A daily overall foreign exchange exposure limit of 15% in relation to Tier I capital is appli- cable to banks ho ld ing a class A banking license. For required net owned funds, daily over- all foreign exchange exposure limits of 15% and 75% are applicable to foreign exchange dealers and moneychangers, respectively. Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Noncitizens are not allowed to hold more than 15% of shares in the listed sugar companies. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2001 June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Mauritius was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. December L The designation "domestic banks" was changed to "banks holding a class A banking license"; "offshore banks" was changed to "banks holding a class B license"; and "offshore companies" was changed to "corporations holding a category I global business license." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. Prior to Ju ly 2, 2001, when this system was fu l ly suspended, the Banco de Mexico (BOM) intervened in the foreign exchange market on the basis of two rule-based mechanisms to m in im ize volatility, to ensure orderly market conditions, and to l im it sharp depreciations of the peso. Under the first mechanism, the BOM auctioned each month among banks the rights to sell to the BOM a fixed amount of dollars in exchange for pesos. These rights could be partially or completely exercised w i th in the month following the respective auc- tion. Holders of these rights could sell dollars to the BOM at the interbank exchange rate published for the previous business day, if the exchange rate was not more depreciated than the average exchange rate for the 20 business days prior to the date on wh ich these r igh ts are exercised. At the time of the suspension of this mechanism (June 1, 2001), the maxi- mum amount of rights that were to be auctioned per month was fixed at US$250 m i l l i o n. Under the second mechanism, which was in place to limit sharp depreciations of the peso, the BOM auctioned (sold) up to US$200 m i l l ion a day, but accepted only those b ids that were at least 2% more depreciated —in terms of pesos per dollar —than the rate of the pre- vious day. These sales took place only once in 2000 and 2001. This second mechan ism was suspended on Ju ly 2, 2001. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to enter into forward transactions that invo lve currencies in over-the-counter markets and formal markets recognized by the BOM (currently, the Chi- cago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Mid America Com- modity Exchange, the Mexican Derivatives Exchange, and the Commodity Exchange Inc.). Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. There is a payments arrangement with the Central Bank of Malaysia. In accordance w i th the Reciprocal Credits and Payments Agreements entered into by the BOM w i th the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the BOM and the central bank of the country concerned w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAIA. A s im i lar payments arrange- ment exists w i th the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Mexico is also a member of the NAFTA. 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 620 MEXICO Clearing agreements There are clearing agreements in accordance with the regional payments agreements referred to above. Adm in is tra t ion of control Internat ional security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency No. No. No. No. The customs law requires that persons bringing into the country an amount of cash, checks, or a combination of both exceeding the equivalent of US$20,000 must declare it to the customs authorities. Foreign currency The regulations governing imports of domestic currency apply. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Commercial banks are permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits in checking accounts payable in Mexico provided the holders of such accounts are (1) residents of the 20 kilome- ter-long strip along the northern border area of Mexico or living in Baja California or Baja Ca l iforn ia Sur, or (2) firms domiciled in Mexico. Commercial banks are also permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits from firms established in Mexico provided such deposits are payable abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks are only permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits in checking ac- counts payable in Mexico with respect to official representations of foreign governments and international organizations, including foreign individuals employed in such entities and foreign correspondents. In such cases, they must be registered in Mexico with the appropriate authority. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentat ion requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs MEXICO 621 Import licenses from the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for only 257 of the 11,800 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary im- ports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for n ine months and may be extended for three months. Import needs are estimated at 20% above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70% of earlier licenses have been effec t ive ly used. For some commodities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be ef- fected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Imports of new cars of a given manufacturer are limited to 143% of export levels of the same manufacturer. Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the MOE. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import tar iffs range from zero to 30%, w i th higher rates for a few products such as cloth- ing, footwear, and leather goods subject to a 35% tariff. Imports from members of LAIA are granted preferential duty treatment. Free-trade agreements exist with Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, the EFTA, the EU, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. Trade with Canada and the United States takes place under the NAFTA. Mexico has applied antidumping duties on the fo l low ing products: current transformers and steel products from Brazil; textiles and articles of apparel, electric products, toys, pencils, padlocks, bicycles and bicycle tires, iron and steel valves, and chemical products from China; beef, sodium hydroxide, po lyv inyl chloride, fructose, and polystyrene from the United States; seamless steel tubes from Japan; polyester from Korea; steel products from Canada, Ukraine, and Venezuela; chemical products from Denmark; and frozen beef from EU countries. Effective January 1, 2001, tariffs were introduced on imports destined to be reexported, except those under a free-trade agreement. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to drugs, narcotic substances, endangered species, and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Export taxes are l im i ted to endangered species' skins, turtle oil, and electricity, among others. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Under the insurance law, it is prohibited for foreign insurance companies to enter into the following types of contracts: (1) insurance of persons when the person is located in Mexico at the time the contract is closed; (2) insurance of hu l ls of ships or airships and of any class of vehicle against risk proper to the maritime and transport class of insurance when the ships, airships, or vehicles are registered in Mexico or are property of residents of Mexico; (3) credit insurance when the insured is subject to Mexican laws; (4) insurance against c iv il liability derived from events that may occur in Mexico; and (5) other classes of insurance against risks that may occur in Mexican territory. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 622 MEXICO Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Such laws specify activities where invest- ment is reserved to the government or Mexican investors. Notwithstanding these restric- tions, if certain requirements are met, the Foreign Investment Law allows foreign investors to purchase equity securities traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (MSB). Thus, with the authorization of the MOE, investment trusts may be established by Mexican banks acting as trustees. These trusts issue ordinary participation certificates that may be acquired by foreign investors; the certificates grant only economic rights to their holders and do not confer voting rights in the companies whose stock is held by the trusts (such voting rights being exercisable only by the trustee). Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities in Mexican territory. Foreign securities pub l ic ly offered in the do- mestic market must be approved by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). Purchase abroad by residents MOF authorization is required for banks and securities firms to purchase shares of foreign financial intermediaries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Domestic securities offered in foreign markets must be registered w i th the Na t ional Registry of Securities (NRS). Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Irrespective of the holder's nationality, the board of directors of each mutual fund must establish a max imum l im it on ind iv idual holdings of its shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other ins trumen ts Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners are restricted to investing in pub l ic ly traded options when investments in the unde r ly ing shares or other securities of a participating nature of such options are reserved exclusively for Mexican residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 623 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities in the Mexican territory. The underlying asset of publicly traded eq- uity options must be registered with the NRS and the MSB where the option is traded. Op- tions on foreign stock exchange indices need the approval on the respective index by the MSB where the option is traded. Furthermore, foreign derivatives pub l ic ly offered in the domestic market must be approved by the CNBV. Purchase abroad by residents Controls apply to Mexican financial institutions with respect to the type of transactions they can enter into and amounts related thereto. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same controls apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are limits on the amount that banks are allowed to lend to ind iv idual borrowers and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. To residents from nonresidents There are limits on credits denominated in foreign currency granted to Mexican banks and on open foreign exchange positions. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Contracting with foreign bonding companies to insure actions of persons who must f u l f i ll obligations in Mexican territory, except for reguarantee operations, is prohibited. If certain conditions are satisfied, the ownership by foreign investors of 100% of the capital stock of a Mexican company is permitted. The law sets forth which activities of the econ- omy are reserved to the government or to Mexican investors and lists the different activities in which foreign investment may not exceed 10%, 25%, and 49% of the total investment. Direct or indirect investment by a foreign government or state enterprise in insurance and bonding companies is prohibited. Direct or indirect investment is prohibited for entities that exercise governmental authority in commercial banks, limited-scope financial institutions, financial holding companies, securities specialists, securities firms, general deposit ware- houses, financial leasing companies, savings and loan companies, factoring companies, foreign exchange firms, mutual funds, companies managing mutual or pension funds, com- panies d is tr ibu t ing stocks of mutual funds, or companies valuating stocks of mu tual and pension funds. Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the government: petroleum and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive minerals; telegraph; radiotelegraphy; postal service; issuance of paper money; minting of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, airports, and heliports. Investments in the fo l low ing sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican ind iv idua ls or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and l iquef ied petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting services other than cable television; ground transport of passengers, tourism, and loading (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions; development banks; and certain professional and technical services. Notwithstanding these restrictions, foreign investors may invest in these activities through the acquisition of ordinary participation certificates issued by investment trusts established by Mexican banks acting as trustee, which grant only economic rights to their holders. Investments exceeding 49% in the fo l low ing sectors and companies require prior authoriza- tion from the National Foreign Investment Commission: acquisition in a Mexican corpora- tion if the total value of assets exceeds the equivalent of approximately US$75 m i l l ion; port services for interior navigation; shipping companies dedicated only to the export of high- speed ships; administration of air terminals; cellular telephones; construction of pipelines for oil and other derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; credit information companies; securities rating institutions; insurance agents; and bu i ld ing, opera- tion, and exploitation of railway lines, if they are for general lines of communication, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 MEXICO the pub l ic service of railway transportation. L im i ts on maximum foreign investments are applied to the fo l low ing sectors: cooperative production entities (10%); air transportation (25%); certain financial institutions (49%); manufacturing of explosives and firearms (49%); newspapers for national distribution (49%); acquisition of "T" shares that represent the value of land used for agriculture, livestock, and forestry purposes (49%); fishing, other than aquaculture, in coastal and fresh waters or in the Exclusive Economic Zone (49%); interior navigation and coastal sailing, except tourist cruises and the exploitation of dredges and other marine devices for ports (49%); integral harbor administration (49%); port pilot services for interior navigation (49%); supply of fuels and lubricants for ships, aircraft, and railroad equipment (49%); using, utilizing, or exploiting a frequency band in national terri- tory, except for the free use spectrum and the off ic ial use spectrum (49%); installing, oper- ating, or exploiting public telecommunications networks (49%); occupying geostationary orbital positions and satellite orbits assigned to the country or exploiting the corresponding frequency bands (49%); and exploiting signal transmission and reception rights of fre- quency bands associated with foreign satellite systems that may cover or render services in the national territory (49%). Any shareholder, regardless of nationality, may acquire the control of series O shares. Prior approval from the respective financial authority is required for a shareholder to own more than 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a banking institution, securities f irm, or financial holding company. Any person may own more than 20% of the shares represent- ing the capital stock of an insurance company, except for any foreign financial institution that, in accordance with a program approved by the MOF to acquire a Mexican-owned insurance company, acquires ultimate control of that insurance company. Effective January 17, 2002, shareholders may acquire the control of shares of an insurance company or bonding company, with prior approval of the MOF, regardless of nationality. When such acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of such in- surance company or bonding company, MOF approval is issued only with prior National Insurance and Bonding Commission authorization. Effective February 15, 2002, sharehold- ers may acquire assets representing the capital stock of a credit information company, re- gardless of nationality. Direct or indirect investment by entities that exercise governmental authority is prohibited for such companies. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents These controls apply to the direct acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate inside a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50-kilometer strip inland from the Mexican coast. In addition, foreign nonresident investors may acquire real estate through Mexican companies, according to whose bylaws, these nonresidents w i ll consider themselves Mexican, and refrain from invoking the protection of their government regard- ing the property acquired and their rights to the real estate w i th in the zone defined above. Such acquisitions may take place (1) through the acquisition of shares of Mexican compa- nies dedicated to nonresidential activities with prior notification to the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs or (2) through a real estate trust for residential activities. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Effective March 9, 2001, new capitalization rules issued by the MOF apply. Commercial banks are allowed to enter into securities loan transactions with United Mexican States bonds. Banks that obtain an unconditional warranty from foreign national entities may be exempt from the l im i ts on foreign currency liabilities and investments for foreign exchange transactions, provided that the long-term debt of the warrantor is rated at least AA- by Standard and Poor's or Aa3 by Moody's Investor Service. BOM approval is required for debt rated by other agencies. Borrowing abroad is permitted subject to the limits on the liabilities of commercial banks denominated in foreign currency and on open foreign exchange positions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 625 Lending locally in foreign exchange There are max imum lending l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to ind iv idual borrowers. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Irrespective of the currency denomination, banks may only enter into transactions on the ir own account w i th respect to securities registered w i th the NRS through securities firms, except for securities issued by banks. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Banks must invest in l iqu id assets, as determined by the BOM and denominated in foreign currency, an amount calculated through the maturity structure of their liabilities payable in foreign currency. Controls apply on types of transactions into wh ich banks may enter and amounts related thereto. Any shareholder, regardless of nationality, may acquire the control of O shares w i th pr ior MOF approval. If the acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a banking institution, CNBV authorization is required pr ior to MOF approval. The l im i ts on shareholders do not apply to foreign offshore banking institutions that were set up in accordance w i th an international trade treaty. Irrespective of the counterparty's residence, total l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denomi- nated in or referred to foreign currency (excluding cash and highly liquid assets, as deter- mined by the central bank) must not exceed an amount equal to 183% of the basic capital stock of the respective bank (calculation of the basic capital stock reflects the capitalization procedure set under the Basel Accord). Effective Ap r il 1, 2002, the conversion of the basic capital into national currency took into account the exchange rate pub l ished by the BOM in the Official Gazette of the business day fo l low ing the date of the calculation of the basic capital. Previously, the calculation of foreign exchange positions by commercial banks was based on net capital and inc luded precious metals. Aggregate short positions subject to foreign exchange risk of each commercial bank must equal the aggregate long positions of that bank each day. No tw i ths tand ing this requ i remen t, effective Ap r il 1, 2002, the central bank allows short or long aggregate positions, or posi- tions referred to the dollar, at the end of each day provided they do not exceed 15% of the bank's net capital (net capital being calculated pursuant to rules issued by the MOF). (Prior to Apr il 1, 2002, for the calculation of foreign exchange position, commercial banks were allowed to inc lude the foreign currency of their agencies and affiliates —in Mexico and abroad —except for securities firms, foreign exchange firms, bonding companies, in- surance companies, manag ing companies of mutual funds, mu tual funds, and pension funds management companies.) Banks may record short or long positions referred to ind iv idual currencies other than the dollar in amounts equal to or less than 2% of the net capital of the respective bank. Such positions are valued pursuant to the gu ide l ines set by the BOM. Offshore banking institutions may be authorized by the BOM, such that the positions referred to above may be determined from a long position in dollars. On nonresident assets and liabilities The regulations governing resident assets and liabilities apply. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Insurance companies may only invest in ins trumen ts pursuant to rules issued by the MOF. These rules specify the types of instruments and amounts in which insurance companies may invest. Mutual funds must invest their portfolios in specially designated "assets for investment"— wh ich inc lude securities registered w i th the NRS and others established in law, depend ing on the types of funds —and those authorized by the CNBV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 MEXICO Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Pension funds management companies may invest only in government-issued instruments and in instruments registered w i th the NRS. The regulations governing l im i ts on securities issued by nonresidents apply. Variable-income mu tual funds and debt instrument mutual funds must invest their portfo- lios in accordance w i th the provisions set forth by the CNBV. The investment guidelines determined by such authority establish the types of instruments and the m in imum percent- age of total assets in which such mutual funds may invest. Effective March 19, 2001, com- mon debt instrument mutual funds and variable income mutual funds were allowed to enter into repurchase agreements with commercial banks and securities firms. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Changes During 2001 June 1. The BOM suspended the mechanism of auctioning monthly among banks the right to sell to the BOM a fixed amount of dollars in exchange for pesos. July 2. The BOM suspended the mechanism of selling up to US$200 m i l l ion a day to l im it sharp depreciations of the peso. January 1. Tariffs on imports destined to be reexported, except those under a free-trade agreement, were introduced. March 9. New capitalization rules were issued by the MOF. March 19. Common debt instrument mu tual funds and variable income mutual funds were allowed to enter into repurchase agreements with commercial banks and securities firms. Changes During 2002 January 17. Regardless of nationality, shareholders were allowed to acquire the control of shares of an insurance company or bonding company, with prior approval of the MOF. When such acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of such in- surance company or bonding company, MOF approval is issued only with prior National Insurance and Bonding Commission authorization. February 15. Regardless of nationality, shareholders were allowed to acquire assets repre- senting the capital stock of a credit information company. Direct or indirect investment by entities that exercise governmental authority is prohibited for such companies. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 1. For purposes of calculating foreign exchange positions, commercial banks and other credit institutions were to use basic capital instead of the net capital. April 1. The conversion of the basic capital into national currency came to be effected tak- ing into account the exchange rate published by the BOM in the Official Gazette of the business day fo l low ing the date of the calculation of the basic capital. April 1. The max imum daily short or long foreign exchange position of a commercial bank may not exceed 15% of the bank's basic capital. Further, for the calculation of for- eign exchange position, commercial banks were allowed to include the foreign currency of their agencies and affiliates —in Mexico and abroad—except for securities firms, foreign exchange firms, bonding companies, insurance companies, managing companies of mutual funds, mutual funds, and pension funds management companies. April 1. Precious metals were eliminated from the calculation of the foreign exchange position. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 24, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by the three commercial banks that are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory banking board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Nonresident Accounts 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 628 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. n.a. Importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or specific basis as follows: 25% on cigarettes (50% on other tobacco products), carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, drink mixes and preparations, coffee, tea, beer, malt beverages, wines, perfumes and articles containing perfumery (such as sachets), cosmetics, toiletries (including cologne and other toilet waters), all skin and hair applications (such as lipstick, pomades, and powders), and any other preparations not having medicinal properties; $10 per U.S. gallon on spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages; and $0.05 per U.S. gallon on gasoline and diesel fuel. Ad valorem duties are 3% on foodstuffs (except for fresh citrus fruit, for which the duty is 25%), 100% on laundry bar soap, and 4% on all other products. The ad valorem duties are based on the c.i.f. value of the goods. State import monopo ly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. The Department of Health, Education, and Social Affairs conducts preshipment inspections of foodstuffs. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The purchase and export of copra and dried coconut meat yielding coconut oil are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 629 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.r. Foreign investors must obtain an application from the federal government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business w i ll be located. Also, they must obtain a license from the federal government to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and submitted to the Foreign Investment Board of each of the states in which the business w i ll be located and operated. Priorities for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commerc ial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Investment regulations Abroad by banks Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with the laws prohibiting land ownership by foreigners. Foreign investors normally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land needed for their business. Yes. n.r. The statutory lending limit to any person is set at 20% of capital. Domestic banks are prohibited from investing in the stocks of any corporation, domestic or foreign. In banks by nonresidents Foreign investment in domestic banks may not exceed one-third of available shares, Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The official exchange rate of the leu against the dollar is determined daily as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in all market transactions. The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) quotes exchange rates of the leu for other currencies on the basis of the leu-dollar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the dollar and the currencies con- cerned in the international market. The official exchange rate is used in accounting and statistical calculations. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter are authorized to purchase from and sell to resident and nonresident individuals foreign banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks in any currency. These transactions may also be effected through credit cards. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Foreign exchange purchased by individuals against cash at authorized banks or at foreign exchange bureaus are subject to a tax of 0.1%. Receipts from these payments are used for domestic social services. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market While this market does exist, it is small and operations are insignificant. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Effective January 1, 2001, nonconvertible currencies may be used for payments and receipts under the same conditions as convertible currencies. Controls on the use of domestic currency The leu is the only legal tender within the territory of Moldova. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed only in cases stipulated by legislation. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions The regulations governing international current transactions in foreign currencies also apply to those effected with domestic currency. According to the Law on Foreign Investment, foreign investments must be undertaken in convertible currencies or in other foreign currencies that are purchased by authorized banks. After the payment of taxes, duties, and dues, foreign investors and foreign invest- ment companies may use any domestic currency receipts from the following: (1) current activities; (2) reinvestment, including acquisition of companies, their quotes, shares, and other securities; and (3) purchases of foreign exchange in the local foreign exchange market. NBM regulations on capital transactions apply to capital transactions in foreign currency and in domestic currency. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. 631 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 632 MOLDOVA Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Adm in is tra t ion of control Except for authorized banks, transfers are not allowed between foreign currency accounts of different residents. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed only in cases stipulated by legislation. Moldova has concluded agreements on settlements with the CIS countries providing for settlements and payments in accordance with international banking practices. Several bilat- eral agreements exist for the promotion of investments and trade development that inc lude provisions on payments between the signatories. Moldova is a member of the Payments Union w i th in the CIS; however, the arrangement is inoperative. The NBM has ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is re- sponsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. In accordance with the Law on Controls on the Repatriation of Funds, Goods, and Services, the NBM monitors export receipts and import payments. The MOF is responsible for controls on repatriation. International security restrictions The draft amendment to the Law on Fighting Against Terrorism stipulates that the funds and other financial assets of persons associated with terrorism are to be blocked. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The MOF establishes regulations governing domestic trade. Controls on external trade A license from the MOF is required to conduct international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign currency may be imported and exported by resident banks with a "B" or "C" type license as well as by nonresident banks that have loro corresponding accounts w i th resident banks; written NBM approval is required. Domestic currency may be imported and exported only by nonresident banks that have loro corresponding accounts with resident banks, and then only with NBM approval. Imports and exports of leu banknotes by resident and nonresident banks must be declared to customs. The limit for banknotes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 2,500 for both resident and nonresident individuals; exports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. The limit on exports of convertible and nonconvertible currencies (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) for both resident and nonresident individuals is the equivalent of $50,000 upon presentation of a customs declaration or with the approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. Without these documents, the limit for resident individuals is $5,000. Exports of foreign currencies must be declared to the customs. The l im it for banknotes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 2,500 for both resi- dents and nonresidents; imports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. Imports of currency (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) must be declared to customs, but there are no quantitative limits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts MOLDOVA 633 Effective January 1, 2001, resident individuals were permitted to open accounts in con- vertible and nonconvertible currencies (previously, they were allowed to open accounts only in convertible currencies). Resident legal entities and individuals may open an unlim- ited number of accounts in both convertible and nonconvertible currencies. All foreign currency earnings of resident legal entities must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks, and account holders may use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle current international transactions and, with written NBM approval, to settle capital transac- tions. Domestic transactions may be settled only after the foreign currency has been con- verted into lei. All payments by legal entities must be effected through transfers. Foreign currency may be w i thdrawn from resident accounts only for business purposes. Resident ind iv idua ls may open type "A" and "B" accounts in any foreign currency. Type A accounts may be credited with foreign currency that was received from abroad (documen- tary proof is required). Type B accounts may be credited with foreign currency purchased locally; no documentary proof of origin is required. There are no restrictions on the use of funds from type A accounts for current international transactions. However, there are some restrictions on transfers from type B accounts. For capital transactions, written NBM ap- proval is required. MOF approval is required only for organizations financed from the government budget. NBM approval is required for all residents to hold these accounts abroad, except for banks holding a B or C license. MOF approval is required only for organizations financed from the government budget. Resident ind iv idua ls are permitted to open accounts abroad w i thout written NBM approval for the duration of their stay abroad. Resident legal entities, inc lud ing authorized banks, may open accounts in domestic cur- rency with nonresident banks only after obtaining written NBM approval. Resident indi- viduals are permitted to open accounts abroad for the duration of their temporary stay abroad without NBM approval. Funds from accounts in lei may be converted into foreign exchange and may be used for current international transactions and for capital transactions, although written NBM ap- proval is required. Foreign currency that was purchased by a resident must be transferred to a nonresident within 30 days; otherwise it must be sold in the domestic market. This regulation does not apply to foreign currency purchased by authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts Effective January 1, 2001, nonresident individuals are permitted to open these accounts in nonconvertible and convertible currencies (previously, only accounts in convertible curren- cies were allowed). Nonresidents w i th foreign currency accounts at authorized banks in Moldova are permitted to transfer the balances from these accounts abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks without restriction, provided that these funds were imported or transferred into Moldova from abroad or obtained by other legal means. Foreign currency deposited into foreign currency accounts of nonresi- dent individuals may be withdrawn in cash up to the balances of their accounts. Nonresi- dent legal entities may w i thdraw foreign currency only from the accounts of nonresident representative offices and only for purposes related to business trips, remuneration of non- residents, and current expenditures. Accounts in lei may be opened freely by nonresidents from countries with whom the NBM has signed a bilateral agreement that specifically allows leu-denominated accounts. All payments by nonresident legal entities must be effected through bank transfers. Do- mestic currency (cash) may be w i thdrawn only from the accounts of nonresident represen- tative offices and only for the purposes of business trips, remuneration, and for current maintenance expenditures of the representative offices. Nonresidents may open leu accounts with authorized domestic banks if the funds are pro- ceeds from sales of foreign currency on the Moldovan foreign exchange market; from sales of goods and/or services by nonresidents; from the possession, use, and administration of nonresidents' property in Moldova; from work performed in Moldova by nonresident ind i- v idua ls; or funds received in accordance w i th a court decision. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 634 MOLDOVA Convertible into foreign currency Balances on leu accounts of nonresidents may be converted into foreign currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments F inanc ing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tar iffs Goods must be imported and services rendered no later than 90 days from the date of the advance payment. The value of all imported goods and rendered services must equal the amount paid. If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated to Moldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effected. To effect payments for imports, in addition to the documents relating to preshipment in- spections, the following documents must be presented to an authorized bank: the contract concluded with the nonresidents, the transaction passport, and other documents in accor- dance with the NBM regulations, as applicable. Foreign exchange purchased by resident legal entities in the domestic currency market must be used for imports w i th in 30 days of the date of purchase. If payment is not made, the foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Effective January 1, 2002, a system of preshipment inspection of goods became effective. Under this system, importers are entitled to effect import payments in favor of any ex- porter, provided that the final invoice bearing the security label be presented to an author- ized bank in Moldova together with the relevant supporting documents, in accordance with NBM regulations. The following imports are subject to licensing for the purpose of consumer protection and to ensure compliance with domestic standards: ammun i t ion, military equ ipmen t, and spe- cial compounds for the manufacture thereof; explosive substances; nuclear products and technology; medicine, equipment for the manufacture of medicine, and medical equ ipmen t; chemicals; cultures for developing microorganisms; and stupefying or psychotropic materi- als and compounds for their derivation or production. Imports of unprocessed ivory are prohibited. There are several tariff bands for imports. A zero customs tariff is applied to cotton, fer t i l- izers, pharmaceutical products, textbooks, and base metals and products thereof, as we ll as to other goods. Customs duties are not imposed on goods and objects produced in and imported from Romania and CIS countries that have ratified the Agreement on the Creation of a Free Trade Zone or with which Moldova has conducted bilateral interstate agreements on free trade. Imported goods and services are subject to a standard VAT of 20%; imports of bread and bakery products, and m i lk and dairy products are subject to a reduced VAT of 8%; imports of gas and l iqu id gases are subject to a reduced VAT of 5%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated to the exporter's accounts w i th an authorized bank unless an exemption to this requirement is granted by the NBM. Proceeds from exports of goods must be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issu- ance of the customs declaration. Proceeds from exports of strategic goods must be repatri- ated within 90 days, and proceeds from goods sold on consignment within 365 days. The list of these goods is established by the government. F inanc ing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 635 Documentation requirements An export contract and a declaration on the repatriation of foreign exchange proceeds are required for exports of goods against payments in domestic and foreign currencies. Export licenses Export taxes Export licenses apply to a limited list of goods considered important for health and security reasons. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Ind iv idua ls may effect these transfers abroad upon presentation of documentary evidence (either the customs declaration for the import of the foreign currency or permission to ex- port foreign currency issued by an authorized bank). Transfers by resident individuals in- vo lv ing foreign currency purchased in the local foreign exchange market are subject to the following regulations: (1) Effective February 22, 2001, a resident individual may freely transfer abroad any for- eign currency up to the equivalent of $100. Transfers of up to $1,000 require a supporting document confirming the need to effect the transfer. For transfers exceeding $1,000, NBM approval is required. Also, resident individuals may transfer abroad foreign currency pur- chased on the domestic foreign exchange market to pay for family maintenance expenses in the amount of up to $1,000 a quarter with NBM approval. (2) Resident legal entities may effect transfers for current international payments on the basis of documents confirming the need to effect these payments. Services must be ren- dered by nonresidents to resident legal entities no later than 90 days from the date of the advance payment for the services. All rendered services must be equal in value to the amount paid for them. (3) To effect payment for services, the fo l low ing documents must be presented to the authorized bank: the contract concluded with nonresidents, the transaction passport, and other documents as required by the NBM. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments After payment of all taxes, duties, and dues, foreign investors may transfer abroad any funds in foreign currency obtained as a result of their investment activities. Private loans from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. Current payments related to these loans may be effected in accordance with the certificates of registration issued by the NBM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Resident ind iv idu al holders of type A accounts and nonresident individual account holders may withdraw foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) for travel purposes up to their account balances and may freely export the currency, provided that permission has been granted by the authorized bank that effected the withdrawal operation. Resident individual holders of type B accounts may withdraw foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) for travel purposes up to their account balance, but may only export up to the equivalent of $5,000. Exports of amounts exceeding this limit require NBM approval. Authorized banks may provide resident legal entities and representative offices of non- residents with foreign currency, cash, and/or traveler's checks for business travel expen- ses abroad up to the equivalent of $5,000 a person a month, along with the correspon- ding permission to export foreign currency. Amounts exceeding this limit require NBM authorization. Yes. Residents may export up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency. Amounts in excess of this require NBM approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 MOLDOVA Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages A labor contract and documents confirming the payment of taxes are required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad International credit cards may be issued to individual and legal entities against all types of resident and nonresident accounts. International credit cards issued against type B accounts of resident ind iv idua ls may be used abroad up to certain limits for cash withdrawal and payment at hotels, gas stations, shopping centers, etc. Resident legal entities may make payments through international credit cards issued against their accounts only for business travel expenditures. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements With the exception of resident individuals who held accounts during a temporary stay abroad, proceeds received by residents from invisible transactions must be repatriated to Moldova unless a specific exemption has been granted by the NBM. If services were not rendered by nonresidents to resident legal entities, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated to Moldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effected. All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated unless NBM approval for an account abroad has been granted. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Approval from the NBM is required for the transfer of capital in monetary form to non- residents. Loans and other monetary flows from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. Effective February 22, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to purchase (in their portfo- lios) securities issued by governments of Group of Seven countries without NBM approval. Issuance of securities in foreign currency is not permitted. Purchases or acquisition of more than 5% of the total value of the securities of an issuer— and each subsequent purchase/acquisition of 5%—must be reported to both the issuer and the National Securities Commission. An offer to acquire at least 25% of the total number of shares of a company, or such quan- tity that would allow control over the company, must be registered with the National Secu- rities Commission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 637 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be sold in Moldova only in the form of Moldovan Depository Re- ceipts (MDRs) issued by residents who are professional participants in the securities market with registered capital of at least MDL 50,000. NBM approval for the exportation of capital from Moldova is required for registration to issue MDRs. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits MOF approval (mainly for statistical purposes) is required for foreign investors to purchase state securities. A single investor's share (resident or nonresident) may not account for more than 50% of the issuance of a given government security purchased in an auction or on the secondary market. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on all of these transactions. By residents to nonresidents Deferred payments exceeding 180 days are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Credits with a deferred payment of more than one year require NBM registration. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required, except for government credits. Credits to nonresident individu- als are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required, except for financial credits received by the government or under government guarantees. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents NBM approval is required, except for guarantees issued by the government. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required, except for guarantees received by the government. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments must be transferred abroad within six months of receipt. After six months, special approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 MOLDOVA Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are limited to income earned and past transfers by immigrants into Moldova. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings NBM approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Effective February 22, 2001, commercial banks are permitted to purchase (in the ir portfo- lios) securities issued by governments of Group of Seven countries w i thout NBM approval. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad NBM registration is required, with the exception of borrowings guaranteed by the government. There are no controls on the opening and maintaining of foreign-currency accounts abroad by banks holding types B and C banking licenses. Authorized banks may open accounts with resident banks in Moldova only with NBM approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Effective October 17, 2001, banks holding type B or C licenses are allowed to lend in au- thorized foreign currencies to each other, to importers for import payments, and to other residents to make nonimport payments, provided that the lending was made with funds obtained from international financial institutions specializing in this type of lending. Prior to that date, authorized banks were permitted to lend in foreign currencies only to importers that were resident juridical persons. Banks holding B and C licenses were permitted to lend only to one another and to other economic agents using funds obtained from international financial institutions for the financing of certain programs. Securities denominated in foreign exchange are not issued in the country. Banking regulations do not provide for separate accounts in foreign exchange; banks, however, perform separate accounting for each currency. Banking regulations do not provide for separate accounts for nonresidents; banks, however, perform separate accounting for nonresidents. NBM approval is required. Effective November 15, 2001, written NBM approval is required to transfer any equity interest in a bank that results in a 10%, 25%, 33%, or 50% share of the aggregate capital of the bank. Prior to that date, NBM approval was required only when a share representing more than 10% of aggregate capital was acquired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 639 Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it for both long and short exchange positions is 10% of the aggregate normative capital for each foreign currency and 20% for long and short positions for all foreign cur- rencies combined. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Nonconvertible currencies may be used for payments and receipts under the same conditions as convertible currencies. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts January 1. Resident ind iv idua ls were permitted to open accounts in nonconvertible as well as in convertible currencies. January 1. Nonresidents were permitted to open these accounts in nonconvertible as well as convertible currencies (previously, they were allowed to open accounts in convertible currencies only). Payments for inv is ib le transactions and current transfers February 22. Resident natural persons were allowed to transfer abroad freely any foreign currency up to $ 100 or its equivalent. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 22. Commercial banks were permitted to purchase (in their portfolios) securities issued by the governments of Group of Seven countries without NBM approval. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 22. Commercial banks were permitted to purchase (in their portfolios) securities issued by the governments of Group of Seven countries without NBM approval. October 17. Banks holding type B or C licenses were allowed to lend in authorized foreign currencies to each other, to importers for import payments, and to other residents to make nonimport payments, provided that the lending was made with funds obtained from inter- national financial institutions specializing in this type of lending. Previously, authorized banks were permitted to lend in foreign currencies only to importers that were resident juridical persons, and banks holding B and C licenses were permitted to lend only to one another and to other economic agents using funds obtained from international financial institutions for the financing of certain programs. November 15. Written NBM approval was required to transfer any equity interest in a bank that results in a 10%, 25%, 33%, or 50% share of the aggregate capital of the bank (previously, NBM approval was required only when a share representing more than 10% of aggregate capital was acquired). Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January 1. A system of preshipment inspection of goods became effective, entitling importers to effect import payments in favor of any exporter, subject to additional documentary requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Mongolian togrog. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative In pr inc ip le, the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the togrog is set daily by the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) as the m idpo int of the previous day's average buying and selling rates established by transactions among participants in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, the vo lume of trading is very low, and the BOM currently adjusts the official rate only once a week rather than once a day. The official exchange rate is applied to public sector imports and service payments, inc lud ing debt service, and to trade and service transactions con- ducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other transactions, including sales of retained foreign exchange by pub l ic sector enterprises, take place through the interbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the dollar in international markets. Based on additional information, the exchange rate arrangement of Mongolia has been reclassified, effective December 31, 2001, to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. No. No. Banks are granted a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license from the BOM for engaging in forward exchange transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Within the territory of Mongolia, all settlements, advertisements, setting of prices, and tariffs must be made in togrog. There are outstanding balances under the clearing arrangement with the Russian Federa- tion. Under inoperative bilateral trade arrangements, there are also outstanding balances with the People's Republic of China, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Clearing agreements Mongolia ma in ta ins a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Adm in istrat ion of control International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. Internationa! security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payments arrears Off ic ial Restrictions are imposed on certain transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There are arrears owed to the Russian Federation. 640 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 641 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exporters of gold must register their exports with the BOM or a commercial bank. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The source of the foreign currency must be documented. Importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited with retained export earn- ings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and the balances may be used for any purpose without restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Registration with the State Registry is required. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Imports of drugs, spirits, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. A special permit is required for imports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Other nontariff measures Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 MONGOLIA Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective January 1,2001, the uniform import duty was raised to 7% from 5%. It was sub- sequently reduced to 5% on January 1, 2002. Specific excise taxes are levied on imports of alcohol, cigarettes, passenger cars, and petroleum products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes A special permit is required for exports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Yes. Export taxes apply to the export of nonferrous and scrap metals, raw cashmere, raw camel wool, and lumber or other timber. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of capital market securities is prohibited. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the Mongolian Stock Exchange is required. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of money market instruments is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 643 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of collective investment securities is prohibited. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of derivatives and other instruments is prohibited. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Registration with the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the BOM is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Registration with the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the BOM is required. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment by private corporations is encouraged, particularly in projects involving export promotion, the use of advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign firms will not be nationalized and that foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. The maximum rate of the profit tax is 40%, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for three to ten years, de- pending on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with foreign trade enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Registration with the BOM and the MOF is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies involving antiques must be registered with the appropriate state administrative authority. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the BOM is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOM permission is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are required to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There is a 50% cap on the share of the reserve requirement that may be met by cash in vault, and on the symmetrical treatment of domestic and foreign currency deposits in meeting reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 644 MONGOLIA Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are required to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of capital, including a subceiling of 10% for any individual currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities may be issued only by government institutions upon the approval of the Great Hural or by companies registered in Mongolia. It is prohibited to lend securities. Any person owning 5% or more of the total-shares of any company must report it to the Securities Committee of the Great Hural within five days after acquisition. Any person who intends to own, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the total shares of any company must make a tender in accordance with the Securities Law of Mongolia. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement December 31. The exchange rate arrangement of Mongolia was reclassified to the cate- gory managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Imports and import payments January 1. The uniform import duty was raised to 7% from 5%. Imports and import payments January L The uniform import duty was reduced to 5% from 7%. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of March 31, 2002} Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan dirham. Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemora- tive silver coins with a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate is determined freely in the interbank foreign exchange market. Bank Al- Maghrib (BAM)—the central bank—intervenes continuously in the market during the day by setting the buying and selling rates applicable to its operations with banks based on a basket of currencies, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. This quotation system is also based on the observance of the cross exchange rates in the international market. For ex- change operations with customers, banks may not exceed the rate limits set by the BAM. Banks charge a commission of 0.2% on their foreign exchange transactions. On April 25, 2001, the dirham was devalued by 5% and the currency basket to which it is pegged was modified accordingly. No. No. Yes. The official forward foreign exchange cover facility has been suspended since the introduc- tion of the interbank foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions between Morocco and foreign countries must be settled in foreign curren- cies that are quoted by the BAM or in convertible dirhams. There are regional payments arrangements between the BAM and the central banks of Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office, an agency under the MOF. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Foreign Trade. On March 22, 2002, the Moroccan authorities notified the IMF that prior Foreign Exchange Office (FEO) authorization is required to conduct financial transactions with listed indi- viduals or entities associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. 645 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 646 MOROCCO In accordance with UN sanctions Morocco maintains restrictions against certain countries pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Customs and Indirect Taxes Admini- stration. The MOF fixes annually a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are also regulated. The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange with the presentation of exchange certificates up to the amount of the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. Residents may also export foreign banknotes under powers delegated to banks by the FEO or granted by special authorization. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign ex- change, but must surrender them for dirhams within 30 days of their return to Morocco. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Natural and juridical foreign residents may open foreign currency accounts in Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, any foreign currency- denominated means of payment (e.g., banknotes or traveler's checks), or foreign currency that was withdrawn from a Moroccan bank in accordance with current foreign exchange regulations. They may be debited for transfers abroad or for purchases of dirhams for all domestic settlements. There are no restrictions on the rate of interest payable on these ac- counts or on transfers between foreign currency accounts or between these accounts and convertible dirham accounts. Further, authorized banks may issue international credit cards to holders of these accounts. Overdrafts on these accounts, however, are not permitted. Moroccan exporters of goods or services may hold convertible export promotion (CCPEX) accounts or foreign exchange accounts. Those without a CCPEX must receive prior ap- proval from the Exchange Office. Up to 20% of foreign exchange receipts may be credited to these accounts (fishing companies may hold 25%) simultaneously, with the sale of the remaining 80% to Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from financial investments made from the balances on the accounts and with transfers from another foreign exchange account of the same account holder. These accounts may be freely debited for payment of business expenses, as provided for in the exchange regula- tions; for investment in authorized intermediary banks; for subscribing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury; for crediting another foreign exchange account or a CCPEX held in the exporter's name; and for surrender of foreign currency to banks. Authorized banks may issue international credit cards to holders of these accounts. Overdrafts on these ac- counts are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 647 Approval required Held abroad Authorization is required for Moroccans to hold these accounts, but resident foreign nationals do not require authorization. These accounts may be opened; however, authorization is required for Moroccans to hold these accounts, but resident foreign nationals do not require authorization. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Two types of accounts may be opened. (1) Foreign currency accounts in the names of for- eign nationals may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality who are either residents or nonresidents. These accounts are regulated by the provisions pertain- ing to the foreign currency accounts of resident foreign nationals and operate on the same terms as those opened by nonresident foreign nationals. They may be credited freely with transfers from abroad; with foreign banknotes, checks, and traveler's checks; with any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and with foreign currency with- drawn from domestic banks, following general or special authorization from the FEO. They may be debited freely for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a foreign third party, for the surrender of foreign currency to domestic banks, and for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by Moroccan nationals residing abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with transfers from abroad, with checks or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, foreign currency withdrawn from domestic banks following general or special authorization from the FEO, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and trans- fers from another foreign currency account or from an account in convertible dirhams. They may be debited freely for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams, foreign currency subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for the surrender of foreign currency to domestic banks. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These are restricted to resident or nonresident natural and juridical persons of foreign na- tionality and are regulated by the provisions applicable to convertible dirham accounts of foreign nationals. There are no restrictions on transfers between foreign accounts in con- vertible dirhams or on transfers of interest. Holders of these accounts may obtain interna- tional credit cards for settlement of all expenses in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dir- ham accounts may be opened freely in the name of Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, inc lud ing banknotes, to domestic banks; (2) transfers authorized by the FEO; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from domestic banks, (2) dirham payments in Morocco, (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dirhams, and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no re- strictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may also be debited freely for the benefit of either the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency-denominated means of payment. Balances on these accounts may be used to finance expenditures contracted abroad that are linked to the professional activity of those concerned. These funds may be transferred within a maximum period of five years in annual install- ments of 20%. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the FEO, to fund investments in Morocco; buy treasury bonds; purchase Moroccan marketable securities; settle expenses incurred in Morocco; and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. Holders may also transfer freely the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 MOROCCO Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The beneficiaries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50% of an investor's participation in investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term ac- counts may be transferred abroad without restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports For all imports, import certificates must be lodged with authorized banks to make payments related to goods and services. The maximum rate of advance payments for imports of capital goods is 40% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Advance payment is limited to the foreign exchange equivalent of DH 20,000 for imported spare parts, consumer goods, and samples. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. For certain groups of goods, however, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad. This group includes (1) externally financed imports if the terms include foreign insurance; (2) capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts; and (3) crude oil, gas, cattle, and wood. Domiciliation requirements Domiciliation is not required for import certificates that do not involve payments. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Morocco and Tunisia have signed a free trade agreement providing for the liberalization of 2,000 products and for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between the two countries by December 2007. The Association Agreement between Morocco and the EU provides reduced tariffs on industrial goods from the EU. Imports are not restricted, except for arms and explosives; secondhand clothing; chemical products that deplete the ozone layer; and, effective May 7, 2001, wheels with used tires or re-treads (previously just used tires), require licenses. Imports of products that affect public health, morals, order, and security may be prohibited. Imports may be restricted for limited periods to protect infant industries or to countervail dumping. Tariff measures may be established for five years to protect infant industries, and they may be extended to eight years. In the case of dumping, the product in question is subject to a prior import declaration for a maximum period of nine months, and is renew- able once. During this period, investigations are carried out to determine whether or not dumping is taking place and, if it is, to determine what tariff measures are to be introduced. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. A large number of consumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 10% duty. Imports of products to be used in the manufacture of goods for export are exempt from customs duties. Specific rates are applied to certain agricultural products. Effective November 15, 2001, a tariff quota is applied on imports of bananas. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All exporters must provide an export certificate guaranteeing repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange proceeds. Certain exports are exempt from this regulation. Proceeds from exports may be collected abroad and used directly to finance imports of goods and raw materials needed to manufacture goods for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 649 Surrender requirements Foreign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract. In principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of the shipment of the goods. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Exporters are authorized to maintain up to 20% of export earnings in convertible dirham or foreign exchange accounts. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must provide an export certificate guaranteeing repatriation and surrender of proceeds from their exports. Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of food products are subject to quality control. Morocco and Tunisia have signed a free trade agreement, providing for the liberalization of 2,000 products and for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between the two countries by December 2007. Exports of grain flour; charcoal; archaeological items; chemical products that deplete the ozone layer; and, effective May 7, 2001, hides and skins require export licenses issued by the Foreign Trade Department. A tax of DH 34 a ton is levied on exports of phosphates. A 1% quality control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Authorized banks are permitted to pay all expenses related to international trade transac- tions, including transportation, technical assistance, and the provision of all types of other services. Payments for freight, unloading, and storage are not restricted. Representation charges may be settled for up to 10% of the export value; this limit may be exceeded only when payment is made by debit to a CCPEX. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments In general, there are no restrictions on the transfer of profits, dividends, and income from investments, or on payments of interest on loans. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits and bona f ide tests regarding interest payments. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Effective February 22, 2002, authorized banks may provide Moroccan or foreign nationals the equivalent of DH 15,000 (previously DH 10,000) a person a year. This allowance may be increased by DH 5,000 (previously DH 3,000) for a minor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent when accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan nationals living abroad upon their return to their home country, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remit- tances within the previous 12 months up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign na- tionality who wish to travel abroad may be granted the foreign exchange equivalent of all their income savings. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of travel allowances for others pur- poses, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the FEO on the basis of need, with a daily limit of DH 2,000. Banks have been empowered to provide advance allow- ances of up to DH 40,000 to small- and medium-sized enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by individuals not belonging to either of these categories. Larger allowances may be approved by the FEO on proof of need. In all cases, allowances for specific business travel cannot be added to other allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Transfers for family maintenance and alimony payments are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of retirees residing abroad permanently. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 MOROCCO Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval from the Ministry of Health is required to make transfers abroad for medical expenses when the patient is not covered by an insurance policy. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to Moroccan nationals for travel abroad for medical treatment up to a maximum of the equivalent of DH 30,000, and to make transfers on patients' behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions con- cerned. School fees to foreign academic institutions may be transferred according to the following limits: (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 20,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, in unlimited amounts, upon presenta- tion of supporting documents; and (3) an allowance for living expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 a month for scholarship holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect payment of rent and corresponding charges in favor of a foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a lease and a certificate of residence or any other equivalent document. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the FEO for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sectors or en- gaged in professions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer all their income. They may contribute freely to pension or social security funds in their countries of origin. These arrangements apply equally to foreign spouses of Moroccan nationals. Commercial banks may transfer pensions paid by government or private organizations to retired individuals residing permanently abroad. In addition, retired foreign nationals and foreign spouses of Moroccan nationals may transfer their entire pensions. Banks may issue credit cards without restriction to (1) foreign nationals holding accounts in foreign currency or convertible dirhams; (2) Moroccan residents residing abroad who hold accounts in convertible dirhams or in foreign exchange; and (3) exporters of foods and services holding foreign currency accounts or a CCPEX. FEO approval is required for other categories. Quantitative limits The limit is the amount of funds in the beneficiary's account. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents of Moroccan nationality, including individuals and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their claims on nonresidents and sell them to an authorized bank. Foreign nationals must repatriate only those foreign exchange receipts that result from their activities in Morocco. Repatriation must take place within one month of the date of the claim. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may keep up to 20% of their foreign exchange receipts in foreign currency or convertible dirhams accounts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 651 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issue of capital market securities by nonresidents is prohibited. There are, however, no controls on the sale of Moroccan securities by nonresidents. Proceeds from such sales may be transferred freely, provided that the relevant purchases are financed by foreign exchange inflows or other comparable means. In other cases, the proceeds must be deposited in a convertible dirham account and may be transferred abroad over a five-year period. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Moroccan nationality and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Residents of foreign nationality are free to purchase securities abroad, provided that these purchases are financed from their foreign exchange holdings or holdings of convertible dirhams. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior FEO authorization. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of these instruments by nonresidents is prohibited. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by Moroccan nationals require prior FEO authorization. Residents of foreign nationality are free to engage in these transactions, provided they are financed with their foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require prior FEO authorization. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require prior FEO authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These instruments have not been developed in Morocco. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These instruments have not been developed in Morocco. ^Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents of Moroccan nationality may subscribe to these instruments abroad only with the prior approval of the FEO. Authorized intermediaries are allowed to engage in foreign exchange buying and selling operations with foreign banks. The issue abroad of these instruments by Moroccan residents is subject to prior authoriza- tion by the FEO. Merchandise exporters are free to extend commercial credits to nonresidents for up to 150 days. Credits with longer terms may be extended with FEO approval. The granting of financial loans by residents to nonresidents is subject to the approval of the FEO. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 652 MOROCCO To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Moroccan enterprises are free to obtain credits abroad, provided that these are used to fi- nance investment or foreign trade. Repayments from Morocco must be made through the banking system. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents in support of the participation of these nonresidents in markets abroad (the supplying of goods or services), the refund of down payments received from foreign cus- tomers, and the guarantee of loans or any other financial instruments mobilized in accor- dance with foreign exchange regulations. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents in support of the participation of these nonresidents in public or private con- tracting, supplying of goods or services, and the refund of down payments. They may also issue sureties on behalf of nonresidents in settlement of tax liabilities or financial obliga- tions. A counterguarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of nonresidents. When claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. Outward direct investments are subject to prior approval of the FEO, but residents of foreign nationality are free to invest abroad. There are no controls on transfers made directly through the banking system of the pro- ceeds of the liquidation or sale of foreign investment, including capital gains when invest- ment falls under the convertibility arrangement (financing by sale of foreign exchange or other comparable methods). For the liquidation of any investment not falling under this category, the relevant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit account denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be transferred over a five-year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions These operations are subject to the investment regime. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of real estate abroad by Moroccan nationals require prior FEO authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign nationals may not purchase farm land in Morocco. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These operations are subject to FEO authorization. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments are subject to prior FEO authorization. However, transfers of inheritance may be effected freely if the inherited property is subject to convertibility arrangements. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These operations are unrestricted, provided they are financed from the foreign assets of the parties concerned or from their assets in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Upon final departure from Morocco, foreign nationals may transfer those assets not subject to the convertibility arrangement for amounts up to DH 25,000 or its equivalent for each year of stay in Morocco. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These earnings are transferable, provided that the gambling was financed with foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 653 Commercial banks may borrow abroad only to finance foreign trade or investment operations. Lending by Moroccan banks is subject to FEO approval. However, banks may use cash held in foreign exchange accounts (by foreign nationals, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) to provide suppliers' credits to foreign customers to finance Moroccan exports. Moroccan banks may grant foreign exchange loans to residents for the financing of for- eign trade operations and investment, within the limits of their respective foreign exchange positions, as authorized by the regulations on the foreign exchange market. These transactions are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Convertible dirham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken into account in the calculation of liquid asset requirements. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted in foreign exchange accounts. These operations are subject to authorization by the FEO and the monetary authorities. In banks by nonresidents These operations are subject to authorization by the monetary authorities. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign exchange position limit for each currency is 10% of net capital and 20% in aggregate for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of these accounts are included in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of these accounts are included in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments April 25. The dirham was devalued by 5% and the currency basket to which it is pegged was modified accordingly. May 7. Imports of wheels with used tires or retreads were made subject to licenses (previ- ously, only used tires were subject to licensing). November 75. A tariff quota on imports of bananas was introduced. Exports and export proceeds May 7. The list of items requiring export licenses issued by the Foreign Trade Department was expanded to include hides and skins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 654 MOROCCO Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 22. The Moroccan authorities notified the IMF that prior authorization of the FEO is required to conduct financial transactions with listed individuals and entities associated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 22. The amount that authorized banks may provide for travel was increased to the equivalent of DH 15,000 from DH 10,000 a person a year, and the additional allowance for a traveling minor dependent child was increased to DH 5,000 from DH 3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mozambique is the Mozambican metical. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external value of the metical is determined by supply and demand in the exchange market, where the Bank of Mozambique (BM), the commercial banks, and foreign ex- change bureaus participate. There is an interbank money market and an interdealer market in foreign exchange outside the fixing sessions. The foreign exchange market is cleared twice daily through telex and telephone transactions. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The metical may not be used for transactions abroad. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign currency by residents in domestic transactions is restricted and is generally not encouraged. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) No. The BM is responsible for foreign exchange policy and administers its control. No. n.a. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as jewelry or ornaments. 655 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 656 MOZAMBIQUE Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is governed by special regulations, while the same regulations that apply to other import items are applicable to the importation of nonmonetary gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency are subject to a limit of Mt 500,000. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $5,000 and above that, up to the amount they declared on entry. Imports of domestic currency are subject to a limit of Mt 500,000, provided they have been previously exported. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Juridical persons must report the opening of such accounts to the BM. No. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened with funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from employment and technical assistance contracts approved by the appropriate institutions; transfers of such funds abroad are permitted once the origin of the funds has been proven. Convertible into foreign currency This is permitted for funds whose origin has been proven; prior approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentary proof of the arrival of goods has to be presented. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspections are performed randomly, depending on the type of merchandise. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports must be registered with customs. A single-document import procedure is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 657 Negative list A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' or creditors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Pro- grams and other agencies review import requests. Some import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. Open general licenses A single-document import procedure is in effect. Import taxes and/or tariffs A variable import surcharge is in effect on sugar. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds, except in cases authorized by the BM, must be collected through the commercial banks. No. Yes. Yes. All exports must be registered with customs. A single-document export procedure is required. Quotas are maintained on exports of sugar to the United States. An export duty of 18% is levied on raw cashew nuts. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Exchange bureaus are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 to individuals to pay expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for film rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to publications. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 for the payment of all types of invisible transactions and current transfers, except for profits and dividends from investments. Op- erations exceeding the limits and those relating to profits and dividends are subject to prior approval of the BM. Yes. Remittances of profits and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 MOZAMBIQUE Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifi- cally, miners in South Africa) are obliged to remit 60% of their earnings through the BM and to convert them into meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There are controls on all capital and money market transactions. All derivative transactions are subject to control. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Public and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on con- cessional terms. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Public and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on con- cessional terms. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate their initial capital. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Investment Promotion Center. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 659 Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing real estate and may enter into contracts only for leasing and concessions. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions There are controls on all personal capital movements; however, earnings from gambling are fu l ly transferable, provided they are confirmed by the casinos, in accordance with a special permanent authorization granted to the casinos by the BM. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No prior approval is required, but the borrowing must be registered at the BM. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents A reserve requirement of 11.5% applies to deposits in both domestic and foreign currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set based on percent of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Prior BM approval is required. Prior BM approval is required. Prior BM approval is required. Yes. n.r. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar kyat. In addition to the official exchange rate, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar (CBM) in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 units and are exchangeable with euros (from January 1,2002; French francs and deutsche mark through December 31, 2001), Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and dollars or with au- thorized traveler's checks at the rate of FEC 1 per $1. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs may be exchanged for kyats at the market-determined rate at FEC exchange centers. Holders of FECs may open foreign currency accounts and/or deposit their FECs into their foreign exchange accounts. An unofficial parallel market for foreign exchange also exists. The kyat is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies mar- gins of 2% to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the euro, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, pound sterling, and the dollar, quoted by the Myanmar Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB), are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the ACU (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, Indian rupee, Iranian rial, Nepalese rupee, Pakistan rupee, and Sri Lanka rupee). The buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, Malaysian ringgit, and Singapore dollar are deter- mined daily on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and the buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the appropriate cross rates received from the Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) and Deutsche Bank Singapore. The secondary market for foreign exchange has been liberalized and a majority of foreign exchange transactions now take place through this market. As a result, effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Myanmar has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in AMUs through the ACU mechanism.The requirement that border trade be conducted only in dollars has been relaxed, and the following currencies, in addition to the dollar and kyat, may be used in their respective border areas: Indian rupees; Chinese yuan; effective January 1, 2001, Thai baht; and, effective May 1, 2001, Lao kip. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Yes. 660 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 661 For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Myanmar is a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trade arrangements with neighboring countries exist. These arrangements do not provide for the extension of credit. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the CBM in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minister allocates foreign exchange for the public sector. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) On March 13, 2002, the Myanmar authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze the funds and other financial assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears are maintained with respect to debt-service payments of the central government. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal use may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. Per- sonal jewelry of a prescribed value may be taken out, subject to approval by the controller of foreign exchange and the condition that the jewelry be brought back into the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was de- clared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Gold bullion may not be imported from any source. The export of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Residents, other than government officials, who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad are allowed to buy the equivalent of $100-$200 from the MFTB and the Myanmar Investment and Commercial Bank on presentation of FECs from their own for- eign currency accounts. Government officials are allowed to take out the equivalent of $500 when traveling abroad. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of foreign currency they brought in with them and may also re- convert the remaining balance of the FECs purchased in excess of the minimum required purchase of $200 or its equivalent. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Travelers may bring in up to $2,000 or its equivalent without any declaration. Tourists arriving in Myanmar are required to purchase FECs equivalent to a minimum value of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 662 MYANMAR $200, but amounts in excess of this minimum may be reconverted into foreign exchange on departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Foreign currency accounts of national firms may be kept with private domestic banks per- mitted to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars only by Myanmar nationals who earn foreign exchange. Account holders are allowed to import under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of LCs or on a collection basis. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examina- tion fees for their children, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of funds between accounts are permitted. Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only for payment of official expenses. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of diplomatic missions and international organizations and their home-based personnel may be kept with the MFTB only. For other nonresidents, prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but all debits and credits require prior authorization. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget An import program for the public sector is prepared annually as part of the foreign ex- change budget drawn up jointly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the MFR. Financing requirements for imports Imports are permitted relative to the level of export earnings. Advance payment requirements A 100% advance payment is required. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports from countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplo- matic relations are prohibited. The state economic enterprises (SEEs) under the different ministries are authorized to engage in their own external trade, but must apply for an ex- port/import license from the MOC. Private importers also need to obtain licenses, and their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 663 imports must consist of 80% of priority items A and 20% of priority items B. Generally, no quota or ceiling is imposed on import items. Some restrictions apply to the imports of certain goods, mainly foodstuffs (e.g., monosodium glutamate, soft drinks, all types of biscuits, canned goods, instant noodles, liquors, beer, cigarettes, and fresh or dried fruit). Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, may not be imported from any source. Negative list Open general licenses OGLs are issued on a case-by-case basis. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariff rates range from zero to 40%. Agricultural implements, raw materials, and other essential imports are taxed at low rates, while the highest rates are applied to imports of luxury goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be fully repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. Yes. Yes. Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with those under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of that which is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. State enterprises have a monopoly on the export of rice, teak, petroleum, natural gas, pearls, jade, and other precious stones and metals. Rice is exported by the Myanmar Agricultural Produce Trading. Local entrepreneurs involved in land reclamation projects are permitted to export 50% of the rice they have produced. Private traders and coopera- tives are also permitted to export some beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers un- der valid export permits issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Exports from which proceeds are received in foreign currency are subject to a commercial tax of 8% and an income tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to approval, which is granted on a case-by-case basis. The maximum amount that may be remitted against FECs is $10,000 a month or its equivalent. Prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange is required for remittances of insurance premiums. Information is not available on the amortization of loans or the depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 MYANMAR Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Remittances to retired government employees are permitted only if the persons concerned were not Myanmar nationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the government or by the private firms established under the Foreign Investment Law. The limit is one-half of the net salary if the spouse is living abroad, and one-third of the net salary if the spouse is living in Myanmar. Balances of salary and lawfully earned income that remain after payment of taxes and de- duction of living expenses of the worker and his or her family may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the CBM Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless exchange control authorities grant a special waiver, 10% of proceeds must be paid as income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permission from the government are required to pay an income tax at the rate of 10% of their gross earnings in foreign ex- change. Myanmar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar nationals working abroad under their own arrangements must pay as income tax 10% of their gross earnings. This tax is to be paid in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. Myanmar nationals working abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay income tax. Restrictions on use of funds Use of funds is subject to exchange control approval. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Myanmar Investment Commission may accept proposals for investment from foreign- ers for fu ll ownership and under a joint-venture arrangement, with the share of foreign capi- tal representing at least 35% of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign invest- ment, the commission may grant exemptions from customs duties and other internal taxes ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 665 on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw materials imported for the first three years of commercial production, as well as exemptions from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years— including the year when production of goods and services began—or for longer than three years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. In addition, accelerated deprecia- tion allowances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign investment are specified in a detailed positive list. The government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nationalized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. Repatriation of capital and profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed funds. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors but may be leased from the state. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad State approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Myanmar was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Border trade with Thailand was allowed to be conducted in Thai bant as well as in kyats. May 1. Border trade with the Lao People's Democratic Republic was allowed to be conducted Lao kip as well as in kyats. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 13. The Myanmar authorities notified the IMF of certain measures taken to freeze the funds and other financial assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Namibia is the Namibia dollar. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Namibia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange market in Namibia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Africa. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including forward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresidents, subject to certain limitations. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward an- ticipated receipts of their future gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transactions involving Namibia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on the interest rate differential between the two currencies. Official cover of forward operations Special forward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import financing. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts If a particular type of payment is not covered in the Exchange Control Rulings, an ap- plication is lodged with the Bank of Namibia (BON). Each application is considered on its merits. Namibia is part of the CMA, and no restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. The BON has delegated some powers to authorized dealers who assist the BON in adminis- tering exchange control. Where an authorized dealer is not empowered to approve a trans- action under the terms of the Exchange Control Rulings, an application is lodged with the BON. The norms applied by the BON in scrutinizing applications are subject to policy guidelines established within the CMA. No. No. The exchange control regulations prohibit the purchase and sale, both domestically and abroad, of unwrought gold by Namibian residents without the specific authority of the BON. All such requests are considered on merit. 666 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 667 Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for numismatic and investment purposes only. Controls on external trade All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authority. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency An individual may export up to N$5,000. Residents and contract workers departing from Namibia to destinations outside the CMA may take out their travel allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving Namibia may take with them the unspent portion of the proceeds of foreign currency imported and exchanged in Namibia. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$5,000 in Namibian banknotes or R 5,000 in South African banknotes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Importation of foreign currency by nonresidents of the CMA is unrestricted. However, Namibian residents are only allowed to import into Namibia the residual balance of foreign currency initially exported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident private individuals are allowed to hold foreign currency accounts with local au- thorized dealers, subject to prior approval. For amounts at or exceeding N$50,000, forms A and E must be completed for sales and purchases of foreign exchange. The amount of N$750,000 allowed for investment by resident private individuals may also be held in a domestic foreign exchange account. Approval is required and is granted on the merit of the application. Private individuals are allowed to invest up to N$750,000 and to retain abroad income earned overseas. No prior approval is required for these transactions. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Payments in foreign currency may be effected from resident accounts, provided the transaction is covered under the Exchange Control Rulings or where prior approval has been obtained. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Only foreign currency accounts of export-processing zone (EPZ) customers are allowed. These accounts are kept offshore via a local authorized dealer and are set up to facilitate the foreign currency disbursements of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must conform to normal banking practices and must be carried out with the fu ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. For other residents, prior approval is required. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. EPZ nonresident accounts are allowed. These are Namibia dollar accounts funded with foreign currency that are used for the normal operational requirements and expenditures of EPZ enterprises and to facilitate local investments. Balances remaining in these accounts are freely convertible and transferable abroad. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 668 Blocked accounts NAMIBIA Residents who emigrated from Namibia on or before April 1,1998, may be allowed, upon application to the BON, to transfer their blocked funds abroad. The accounts of residents who emigrated after that date are subject to normal emigration procedures. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payment for the importation of capital goods is allowed upon filing an application with the BON. Authorized dealers may approve 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods as well as "cash-with-order" advance payments of up to N$50,000 a transaction for permissible imports other than capital goods. Documentation confirming receipt of the imported articles into Namibia (e.g., a bill of entry or local post receipts) is required. Letters of credit LCs may be established locally by authorized dealers. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Permits are valid for one year for imports from any country outside the SACU and are expressed in value terms. At present, about 90% of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU and, under certain conditions, from countries within the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system A general sales tax of 10% is levied on all imports in addition to a sales duty between zero and 15%, depending on the type of commodity. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are normally required to be repatriated within 30 days of accrual. Surrender requirements Exporters are allowed to retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in a customer foreign currency account with authorized dealers. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports from Namibia over the amount of N$50,000 must be accompanied by an export declaration, and, upon receipt of export proceeds locally, the inflow of foreign currency must be declared. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. All exports, except to SACU member countries, require a license. Permits are required for exports of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authorized dealers may approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits. Larger amounts may be granted on pres- entation of documentary proof of need. Virtually all remaining controls on current account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits NAMIBIA 669 transactions have been liberalized, except in cases where limits were retained to maximize the effectiveness of remaining controls on capital outflows. No prior approval is required, but if a local company is contracting any loans via a local source, an application should be filed with the BON. The repayment of foreign loans requires BON approval. Effective March 30, 2001, residents aged 12 years or older may obtain up to N$ 140,000 a person a year and those aged less than 12 years may obtain up to N$45,000 a person a year (previously, N$ 130,000 and N$40,000, respectively). Residents traveling to destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take out the foreign exchange that was made available to them in any form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits are approved when the applicant provides docu- ments in support of a bona fide request. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on payments of medical costs and alimony (the latter are subject to presentation of a court order). Applications for the transfer of pensions are considered on the merits of each case. Effective March 30, 2001, the annual allowance for study abroad for a single student is N$ 140,000 and for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse is N$280,000. Family maintenance transfers are limited to N$7,000 a month for a recipient family (previously N$ 130,000, N$260,000, and N$6,000, respectively). Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits for payment of study abroad are approved when applicants provide documents in support of a bona fide request. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Contract workers may transfer two-thirds of their monthly salary. No prior approval is required for travel expenses. Limits must be in accordance with prescribed travel allowances. Authorized dealers may permit up to N$20,000 a transaction for permissible imports. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Applications are considered on the merits of the particular case. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Namibian private individuals may retain income earned abroad from any source other than merchandise exports. Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is authorized. Restrictions on use of funds Prior BON approval should be obtained to use such funds outside the CMA. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions The investment limit for private residents abroad is N$750,000. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely per- mitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 670 NAMIBIA outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their merits. Namibian corporations are allowed to invest substantial amounts in the SADC member countries, and dual listing of companies on both the Namibia Stock Exchange and other SADC stock exchanges is permitted. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents are freely transferable. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted up to the N$750,000 foreign investment limit of resident individuals. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents The restrictions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The restrictions governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted within the N$750,000 foreign investment limit of resident individuals. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Interest rates applicable on foreign currency-denominated loans should not exceed the LIBOR plus 2%, while those on local currency-denominated loans should not exceed the prime overdraft rate plus 3%. Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to the specific approval of the BON, which is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowings or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Na- mibia's foreign trade and other approved purposes. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents A wholly nonresident-owned company may borrow 100% of shareholder equity locally. Only companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls. Foreign loans to Namibian residents require prior approval, which is usually granted when the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments, and the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Companies are allowed to borrow abroad using their local balance sheet as a guarantee where the invest- ment required exceeds the limit of N$50 million or, in the case of investments in SADC member countries, N$250 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment NAMIBIA 671 Yes. Yes. Applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their merits. The limit on foreign investment is N$50 million in countries other than SADC members, and a facility of N$250 million for investments in SADC member countries was estab- lished. Consideration is to be given to foreign borrowings to finance these investments with recourse to, or guarantee from, Namibia, implying that the local corporations' bal- ance sheet may be used in negotiating such a facility. Approved foreign subsidiaries may expand activities abroad without prior approval, provided such expansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by profits earned by the foreign subsidiary. Namibian private individuals over 18 years of age may invest abroad or place in a domestic foreign currency account up to N$750,000, subject to the production of a Tax Clearance Certificate from the Namibia Inland Revenue. The investment may be in any form. Income earned abroad and capital introduced into Namibia on or after July 1, 1997, by private indi- viduals resident in Namibia may be retransferred abroad, provided that the income and/or capital had previously been converted into Namibia dollars. The BON is now considering applications by private individuals to invest in fixed property, e.g., holiday homes and farms, in the SADC member countries. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment may be effected freely. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These purchases are permitted up to the N$750,000 foreign investment limit. Other purchases are subject to exchange control approval. By residents to nonresidents Residents require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Residents require prior approval. Effective March 30, 2001, authorized dealers may allow the transfer of loans up to a limit of N$25,000 an applicant annually (previously N$20,000). Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from such estates due to nonresidents may be remitted up to N$500,000. Sums due in excess of this amount require prior BON approval. Residents must declare funds obtained and repatriate them to Namibia. Alternatively, an exemption may be obtained from the BON for the retention of such funds abroad. Each application is considered on its merits. Effective March 30, 2001, monetary gifts of up to N$25,000 an applicant are allowed annually (previously, N$20,000). If the immigrants have formally declared their assets and liabilities and have no cash resources available with which to pay the debt, the BON may consider requests for exemption based on merit. Emigrants are allowed to export any household and personal effects for an emigrating family unit or single person within the overall insured value of N$l million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 NAMIBIA Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Families emigrating outside the CMA are granted the normal tourist allowance and are permitted to remit up to N$400,000 (N$200,000 for single persons). Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. The balance, including earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete ac- count of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets they transfer to Namibia may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Normally, Namibians are discouraged from participating in international lotteries. Most requests in this regard are thus declined. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Prior approval is needed for lending not related to trade transactions. Only companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls, and permission is given for local financial assistance to be granted to nonresident-owned companies against a non- resident guarantee, provided the amount made available does not exceed the limit calcu- lated in terms of the formula requirements. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers may lend money locally in Namibia dollars. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks As long as these deposits are liabilities to the public arising from operations in Namibia, they will be included in the basis for calculating the minimum liquid assets and reserve requirements. The limit for credit facilities to any person or group of related persons is 30% of a banking institution's capital funds. In addition to the above limit, granted credit facilities of more than 10% of capital funds may not exceed, in aggregate, 800% of the total capital funds of the banking institution in Namibia. These limits apply to all customers irrespective of their citizenship. As long as these deposits are liabilities to the public, arising from operations in Namibia, they will be included in the basis for calculating the minimum liquid assets and reserve requirements. The regulations governing deposit accounts in foreign exchange apply. Banking institutions are at all times required to maintain minimum local assets situated in Namibia of an aggregate value of not less than 100% of the amount of their liabilities pay- able in Namibia dollars (excluding capital funds), less any debit balances denominated in South African rand in the clearing account held with their associate banks in South Africa. Open foreign exchange position limits There is no distinction between residents and nonresidents. The net open position limit is 15% of a bank's share capital and unimpaired reserves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Namibian pension funds and insurance companies are obliged by law to invest 35% of their total assets locally. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The maximum is 65% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. With BON approval, qualifying institutions (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and fund managers) may invest up to 15% of total assets; the limit for investments made by unit trusts through unit trust management companies is 20% of total assets. These in- vestments are subject to the overall limits of 10% and 20% of their total assets, respec- tively, and are to be made by way of asset swaps. The foreign currency transfers allowed are 10% of the total value of the local fund. Transfers abroad of up to 3% of the net inflow of funds during the preceding year may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 673 be allowed. Ten percent of the net inflow of funds in the previous year may be invested on the stock exchanges of SADC member countries. The definition of institutional investor includes the unit trust management company itself. In the past, it included only the fund. The minimum is 35% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 30. The limit on family maintenance transfers was raised to N$7,000 a month for a recipient family from N$6,000. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on personal capital movements March 30. The travel allowance for residents was raised to N$ 140,000 a person a year for persons aged 12 years and older (from N$130,000), and to N$45,000 a person a year for persons aged less than 12 years (from N$40,000). March 30. The annual allowances for study abroad were raised to N$ 140,000 for a single student (from N$ 130,000), and to N$280,000 for a student accompanied by a nonstudent spouse (from N$260,000). March 30. The limit on loans to residents from nonresidents was raised to N$25,000 an applicant annually from N$20,000. March 30. The limit on monetary gifts from residents to nonresidents was increased to N$25,000 an applicant a year from N$20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Nepalese rupee has been pegged to the Indian rupee at the rate of Nrs 1.6 per Re 1 since February 1993.The reference rate of the dollar quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) is based on the average of the quoted rate of commercial banks. Exchange rates of other major currencies are quoted on the basis of overseas markets. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, with quotations based on the buying and sell- ing rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal. All current transactions with member countries of the ACU other than India must be ef- fected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in dol- lars. Other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Yes. Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the proce- dures prescribed by the NRB. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. n.a. No. Persons who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an official source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they bring in. 674 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted NEPAL 675 Yes. Residents and nonresidents may bring in foreign banknotes freely, but must declare amounts exceeding the equivalent of $2,000. No limit applies to Indian rupees. Resident Accounts Exporters are allowed to deposit up to 100% of export earnings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months may open these accounts. Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in most of the freely usable currencies and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Current accounts may be opened with a m in imum equivalent to $500, and time deposits with a minimum equivalent to $3,000. Effective July 7, 2001, banks are free to determine the m in imum balance on time deposits. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. With prior approval, commercial banks may open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Diplomats and foreign nationals, except Indian nationals, may open foreign currency accounts freely with Nepalese banks. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments No. No. Thirty-three items imported from India are required to be settled in foreign exchange. Effective January 25, 2002, banks are required to obtain information regarding the business credibility of the supplier before opening LCs in excess of the equivalent of $50,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports are covered by OGLs. Quantitative restrictions are in effect for the importa- tion of poppy seeds. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of arms, ammunition, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry require special permission from the government. Yes. There are seven tariff rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 40% as well as two special rates of 80% and 130%), with most goods subject to either the 15% or the 25% rate. Nepalese citi- zens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are permit- ted to bring in goods worth Nrs 1,000 free of customs duties and sales taxes. Citizens with official sources of foreign exchange earnings and who have stayed abroad for one month or more are allowed additional imports without official documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 676 NEPAL State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 180 days of receipt. Exporters are al- lowed to accept short payments in export proceeds, if they do not exceed $500 or 1%, whichever is higher. Approval by of the NRB is required for amounts above the specified limit. Exporters may retain the export earnings on their foreign currency account with local banks. Commercial banks may grant preexport credit of up to 70% of the f.o.b. value of products to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable LCs opened or endorsed by foreign banks and acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Exports to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable LCs or advance payments by foreign banks. Export consignments not exceeding $50,000 may be undertaken on the basis of a bank guarantee. Reexportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and reexportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is not compulsory. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Exports of items having archaeological and religious value, old coins, narcotics, and explo- sive materials are prohibited. The export volume of selected ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota system. Export taxes are levied on 23 specific items and a 5% service charge—based on the f.o.b. value of the item in question —is levied on all other exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval is required in the case of private sector loan amortization. The limit for travel to the United States and western Europe is $2,000 or its equivalent and that for other countries is $1,000. Prior approval of the government is required for transfers related to medical and study abroad costs. Yes. The use of credit cards abroad is allowed under specific guidelines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 677 Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Nonresidents may invest in equity shares of up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. Yes. Yes. Yes. No transactions have occurred as yet. Controls on credit operations Specified borrowers may borrow from abroad on the basis of guidelines. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nepalese citizens, whether or not residing in Nepal, are not allowed to make any type of investment in foreign countries, except as specifically permitted by government notice. The exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. Investments require prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Department of In- dustry. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related in- dustries. Foreign investors may hold 100% equity in large- and medium-scale industries. Foreign securities firms are permitted to form joint ventures with local state exchange members, but their ownership is limited to 40%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 NEPAL Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents . Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Based on the provisions of the Company Act. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The approval of the NRB is required. Effective February 14, 2002, commercial banks may enter into interest rate swap arrangements with foreign banks and other financial entities without NRB approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exporters, tourism-related businesses, and specific industries are entitled to such credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No such transactions have occurred. Differential treatment is based on the type of currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Resident accounts July 7. Banks were allowed to determine the minimum balance on time deposits without restriction. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2002 January 25. Banks were required to obtain information regarding the business credibility of the supplier before opening LCs in excess of the equivalent of $50,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 14. NRB approval was no longer required for commercial banks to enter into interest rate swap arrangements with foreign banks and other financial entities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the euro. Through January 28, 2002, however, the Neth- erlands guilder remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and January 28, 2002, both the guilder and the euro circulated. On January 29, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Classification Unitary. Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Netherlands participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the guilder was set at f. 2.20371 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On December 27, 2001, the Dutch authorities informed the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and/or EU regulations, certain restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola, and the Taliban. Payments and transfers to specific persons or entities of Myanmar or Zimbabwe and to specific individuals associated with the former government of the Republic of Yugoslavia are restricted. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 679 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts NETHERLANDS Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In compliance with relevant UN Security Council resolutions and/or EU regulations, funds belonging to Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola, and the Taliban are blocked. Funds belonging specific persons or entities of Myanmar or Zimbabwe and specific individuals associated with the former Republic of Yugoslavia are also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to common EU regulations. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricul- tural, steel, and textile sectors, as well as for goods of unknown origin. Effective January 1, 2002, the number of import licenses for textile products was reduced. These apply to imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in some former state trading countries. Effective March 29, 2002, tariff quotas were introduced on certain steel products in accordance with EU regulations. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 681 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. On resident assets and liabilities Integrated reports with nonresident assets and liabilities are required. On nonresident assets and liabilities Integrated reports with nonresident assets and liabilities are required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 27. The Dutch authorities informed the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with ter- rorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 NETHERLANDS Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the guilder could be used for payments through January 28, 2002. Imports and import payments January L The number of import licenses for textile products was reduced. January 29. The euro became the sole legal tender. March 29. In accordance with EU regulations, tariff quotas were introduced on certain steel products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean guilder. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The guilder is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $1. The official selling rate is NA f. 1.82 per $1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are set daily on the basis of rates of the dollar abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where required. The Department of Fi- nance (DOF) issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may provide foreign exchange for all current transactions without prior approval of the CB. Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Taliban, and individual groups and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is prohibited except for travel purposes. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals may hold these accounts without a special license. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Transfers from a local bank account to foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 50,000 a quarter without prior CB approval. These transactions must be reported to the CB, however. 683 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. In addition, these accounts may be funded only with foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Imports with delivery dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the CB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Imported goods for which there are locally produced substitutes are subject to tariffs and levies. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curacao. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the CB. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart. Investment-related payments These transactions are subject to certain conditions. Prior approval Companies must submit their annual report to the CB for verification of the actual amount of profits and dividends recorded before they may remit them. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 685 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of fund s' No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Investments by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are listed) are permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, provided that these payments are effected through a local exchange bank. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On capital market securities There are licensing requirements for all capital market transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all derivatives transactions. Controls on credit operations Credit operations require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Investments require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Only short-term loans are permitted without a license. To residents from nonresidents Only short-term loans are permitted without a license. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. CB approval is required for the acquisition of more than 5% of shares in other companies. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are not allowed to have negative net foreign asset positions. Any negative position is subject to penalty. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents n.r. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits are 40% for the first NA f. 10 million, 50% for the next NA f. 10 million, and 60% for additional amounts of the total provisions and liabilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There must be sufficient assets in a particular currency to cover the liabilities in that currency (currency exposure is not allowed). Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no securities law. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. New Zealand participates in PACER. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On December 28, 2001, the New Zealand authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, and similarly with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions. Restrictions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia resolution have been suspended since December 1995 in cases where it is clear that the assets, funds, and securities are not sub- ject to any claim or interest on the part of the successor states of the former Socialist Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia other than Serbia and Montenegro. Certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions have been imposed with respect to the UNITA movement in Angola, to Libya, and to the Taliban. Until December 1, 2001, restrictions were also in place with respect to the Islamic State of Afghanistan. No. No. The Financial Transactions Reporting Act requires that imports and exports of banknotes be reported. A customs documentation form, required when entering or leaving the country, includes a requirement to declare amounts greater than $NZ 10,000 or its equivalent. 687 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 688 NEW ZEALAND Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products—pri- marily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. For nonprimary produce, tariffs apply to imported products that compete with New Zea- land's domestic production. All primary produce competing with New Zealand's domestic production is admitted free of tariff. Overall, 95% of imports (by value) are imported free of duty. Most tariffs are ad valorem, except for many clothing products, to which either an "alterna- tive specific" tariff of 19% or a corresponding alternative specific tariff expressed in dollars per unit—whichever is higher—applies. Tariffs on most imports from nonpreferential sources are 6-8%. The only tariffs over 15% apply to clothing (19%) and carpets and foot- wear (both 17.5%). Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SPARTECA agreements, imports from the participating countries enter New Zealand duty free, while Canada enjoys a margin of pref- erence. Eligible imports from developing countries are allocated tariff preferences, and, effective July 1,2001, the 48 least-developed countries are granted duty-free access for all products (previously, they were granted duty-free access for all products except clothing and footwear). Effective January 1,2001, products imported from Singapore are exempted from customs tariffs. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 689 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. For conservation reasons, there are also restrictions or prohibitions on exports of various animals and plants. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Under the Overseas Investment Regulations, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland," "land," "farmland" (from January 18, 2002), and fishing-quota investments, which apply both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled firms. Nonland in- vestments involving the acquisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand com- pany—and where the consideration exceeds $NZ 50 million or which involve the purchase of property costing more than $NZ 50 million, to be used in carrying on a business—are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceeding $NZ 50 million in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the pro- cedure is straightforward. Under the Fisheries Act, a nonresident must obtain either an ex- emption or a permission to acquire or to continue holding a fishing quota, an interest in quota, annual catch entitlement, or provisional catch history. Foreign ownership of Tele- com Corporation of New Zealand Limited is limited to 49.5%. Prior to January 18, 2002, foreign ownership of Air New Zealand was limited to 35%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents For foreign investment in certain types of land, the investor must undergo a bona fide test and the investment must be in the national interest. Authorization is required for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 690 NEW ZEALAND acquisitions of the following: land exceeding 5 hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds $NZ 10 million; islands or land containing or adjoining reserves, historic, or heri- tage areas; foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectares; and, effective January 1,2002, land containing or adjoining foreshore in excess of 0.4 hectares. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts December 1. Restrictions were lifted with respect to the Islamic State of Afghanistan. However, those in respect to the Taliban remain in effect. December 28. The New Zealand authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the assets of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terror- ism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and import payments January 1. Products imported from Singapore were exempted from customs tariffs. July 1. The 48 least-developed countries were granted duty-free access for clothing and footwear. Changes During 2002 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment January 18. The limit on foreign ownership in Air New Zealand (of 35%) was removed. January 18. A separate authorization procedure for farmland investments came into effect. Controls on real estate transactions January 2. Authorization was required for acquisitions of land containing or adjoining foreshore in excess of 0.4 hectares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 30, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nicaragua is the c6rdoba. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control A crawling peg system is maintained, under which the exchange rate of the c6rdoba against the dollar is 6% per annum. The central government and financial institutions are free to undertake purchases or sales of foreign exchange with the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN). There is no tax, but the CBN charges a commission of 1% on sales of foreign exchange. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Nicaragua is a member of the CACM. Exchange operations between private agents are not restricted. The CBN allows authorized commercial banks and exchange houses to effect foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Payments arrears are maintained with members of the Paris Club and non-Paris Club countries. The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. An authorization from the CBN is required to operate as a gold exporter. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only (commemorative gold coins have been is- sued in 1967, 1975, 1980, and 2001). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 691 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 NICARAGUA Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts C6rdoba accounts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) contracts may be opened with commercial banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports All importers must submit an import declaration form either to commercial banks or to customs when they are using their own resources. Letters of credit Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective July 1, 2001, the temporary import tariff on intermediary and capital goods not produced in Central America was eliminated. At the same time, the import tariff regime was harmonized with that of the CACM, and the maximum tariff rate, which applies to tobacco and certain alcoholic beverages, was raised to 15% from 10%. An additional 35% import duty, a "sovereignty tax," is imposed on imports from Honduras and Colombia. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Export licenses are not required, but all exports must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 693 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Capital Transactions Commercial banks are authorized to hold the equivalent of US$20 million of foreign cur- rency bonds called "BOMEX." Each institution is assigned a percentage based on the insti- tution's reserve requirement contribution (there is a 16.25% minimum requirement), which was temporarily increased to 19.25% from 16.25% during August 2001-January 2002. These bonds are considered short-term bonds redeemable 90 days after the date of issue, and yield the same interest rate as that applied to reserves held by the CBN abroad. If an institution or commercial bank fails to meet these criteria, the reserve requirement for that institution is increased to 20% for both domestic and foreign currency. No. No. For statistical purposes, these credits must be reported to the CBN within 30 days after they have been granted. To residents from nonresidents The same requirement applies as for commercial credits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Foreign exchange originating from new investments or additions to capital must be surren- dered to the CBN through commercial banks. However, as a result of the elimination of exchange controls, this regulation does not apply in practice. No. No. No. These instruments may only be issued by the CBN or the government. There are prudential limits. There are prudential limits established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 694 NICARAGUA Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments Capital transactions July 1. The temporary import tariff on intermediary and capital goods not produced in Cen- tral America was eliminated. At the same time, the import tariff regime was harmonized with that of the CACM, and the maximum tariff rate was raised to 15% from 10%. August 1. The minimum reserve requirement was temporarily increased to 19.25% from 16.25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at a fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buying and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on exchanges involving French francs (through December 31,2001; euros from January 1,2002) and a commission on purchases and sales of other currencies, the rate of which is freely determined. In addition, they levy a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services, and maturities may not take place after the payment due date for the imports or exports in question. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Niger is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1,2002) or the currency of any other Operations Account country or any other currency stipulated in commercial contracts. Foreign currency accounts (FCAs) may be debited and/or credited with domestic currency for the following transactions: cash purchases of foreign exchange, credit to another FCA, and payments to a resident. All other transactions through FCAs in domestic currency require prior BCEAO approval. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Foreign exchange may be used among residents only in transactions between authorized dealers and their clients. 695 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 NIGER Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists within the WAMA between the member states of the WAEMU and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the au- thority to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report those operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO involve resi- dents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, foreign exchange accounts held in currencies other than euros, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Travelers are allowed to export CFA franc banknotes within the WAEMU. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes continue to be suspended. In addition, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their corres- pondent banks located outside of the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and must surrender them within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Individuals traveling abroad may open bank accounts abroad to deposit foreign currencies legally exported during travel and income earned during a stay abroad. Residents are re- quired to repatriate assets held in these accounts within 30 days of their return. Foreign accounts of national diplomatic representations are not subject to any restrictions. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 697 opening of accounts abroad by residents for any other purpose is subject to prior MOF authorization, subsequent to BCEAO approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. The BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU countries; therefore, these accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, French franc notes (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002), or any other banknote issued by a central bank maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be freely debited for the purchase of foreign currencies on the official market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the scheduled date of the payment. Exchange authorization and invoices are required. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Goods exceeding CFAF 3 million f.o.b. require an inspection for quality and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Quantitative restrictions may be applied on products for public health and security reasons. Negative list Narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The due date of payment for exports must be within 120 days after the goods have been shipped. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchasing country, must be repatriated in their entirety through the BCEAO no later than 30 days from the date of receipt. The repatriation of proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries is not required. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 698 NIGER Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Authorization is required for exports of gold. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents traveling as tourists or on business to franc zone countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in cash in foreign currency. Any sum above this amount may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other payment instruments. Foreign currency is issued upon presentation to an authorized bank of a ticket and a valid passport or identity card. The amount of foreign currency to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Required for payment of family maintenance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon the presentation of pay slips. Credit card use abroad Other payments Credit cards issued by resident financial intermediaries or foreign financial institutions may be used abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU members, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Capital Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 699 inflows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted. Capital transfers to all other countries require MOF approval, but receipts are freely permitted. There are no controls on foreign investments in WAEMU countries or on capital outflows for repayment of loans, disinvestment abroad, and option contract purchases. These opera- tions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuing and marketing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, or advertising investments abroad. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These are subject to declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents may purchase securities sold or issued by nonresidents only after obtaining the authorization of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents The prior authorization of the MOF is required for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell securities freely to nonresidents for disinvestment purposes, but the settlement by transfer abroad or by a credit to a nonresident's account requires an exchange license issued by the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are virtually unknown in Niger. However, instruments of this type are governed by the rules and regulations normally applicable to securities and direct invest- ments. Residents are authorized to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and securities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits to nonresidents may be granted freely for merchandise exports if the due date of payment is within 120 days following shipment of the goods; commercial credits for ser- vices may be granted freely; no time limit has been officially fixed for such payment. There are no controls on the granting of loans of this type. Their repayment is, in general, authorized, subject to the submission of documents. The granting of financial credit is subject to prior authorization of the MOF. For the trans- fer abroad of funds in this context, a foreign exchange authorization must be submitted for clearance from the MOF, together with the necessary supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but funds required to service these facilities must be transferred through an authorized intermediary. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but the necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 NIGER Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment investment company resident in Niger and its parent company located abroad, the transac- tions are considered direct investments and require a prior declaration to the MOF. Participation in a company is considered direct investment if it exceeds 20%. Authorization from the MOF is no longer required for investments consisting of the acquisition by resi- dents of securities, for which the issue or marketing by nonresidents has been authorized in advance by the RCPSFM. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed with borrowing from abroad. Inward direct investment Inward investment is subject to prior reporting to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of a resident's investments abroad must be reported to the MOF. Reinvest- ment of the proceeds of such liquidations is subject to prior MOF authorization. If rein- vestment is not authorized, the proceeds must be repatriated within one month through an authorized bank. There are no controls on the sale of foreign investment in Niger, but such operations must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed with prior declaration to the MOF. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Operations may be settled only after the approval of the MOF. Following settlement, the liquidation or sale must be reported to the MOF and to the BCEAO within 20 days. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents A declaration for statistical purposes and submission of a report to the MOF is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments are subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Inheritances and legacies are generally authorized. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration to the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have acquired resident status must first obtain authorization from the MOF to settle debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to prior authorization to the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad All borrowing abroad must be reported to the Directorate of External Finance for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions may open accounts with correspondent banks but are not authorized to hold liquid assets, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Prior MOF authorization is required. Lending in foreign exchange by resident banks to resident individuals who are author- ized to hold accounts in foreign exchange is subject to prior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 701 Loans and other assistance granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Yes. Investment regulations The regulations governing direct investment apply. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference of Insurance Markets (CIMA Code). Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Securities and mutual funds issued outside the WAMU by a private or public entity that is not a resident of a member country may not be listed on a regional securities exchange. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The CIMA Code does not allow insurance companies to invest abroad. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA Code includes specific rules for the use of insurance companies' technical reserves. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The CIMA Code specifies that liabilities in a given currency must be covered by assets denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian naira. There are four exchange rates: the interbank foreign exchange market rate (FEMR), at which the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) transacts with commercial banks; a separate interbank exchange rate (NiFEX), at which certain commercial banks transact among themselves; the bureau de change rate; and the parallel market rate. During 2001, the ex- change rate in these markets diverged substantially from the official interbank rate—e.g., the premium of the parallel market rate over the interbank rate averaged 16.6%. The exchange rate of the naira is determined in the interbank market. The official interbank rate is set as the outcome of telephone dealing among approved dealer banks and the CBN. The CBN sells government receipts of foreign exchange in the interbank market. Petroleum companies may sell their proceeds from oil exports to the CBN or to approved dealer banks. However, payments of Petroleum Profits Tax and royalties are required to be sub- mitted in foreign exchange directly to the government's account with the CBN. Approved dealer banks may buy foreign exchange from the CBN on their own account (subject to prudential requirements on open forward positions) or on behalf of their customers, who are required to justify their purchases of foreign exchange with reference to trade, remit- tance, or other requirements. No. No. Forward exchange transactions in the interbank market are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and their customers, subject to prudential limits. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. Yes. Yes. The CBN formulates basic foreign exchange policy and issues directives as appropriate for the operation of the interbank market. The CBN approves and revokes the appointments of authorized dealers or authorized buyers of foreign currency, and supervises and monitors the operation of the interbank market. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Paris Club creditors agreed with the government of Nigeria to restructure its external debt. This debt-rescheduling agreement entered into force on April 15, 2001. Most of the arrears were to Paris Club bilateral creditors, but there were also small arrears to multilateral and non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. While the arrears to Paris Club credi- tors were cleared under the rescheduling agreement, new arrears to Paris C lub creditors 702 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 703 accumulated by end-2001 as debt-service payments fell short of the amount agreed to as part of the rescheduling operation. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation of amounts in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. The exportation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Importation of amounts in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. The importation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Any person may open, maintain, and operate a domiciliary account designated in foreign currency with an authorized dealer. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Holdings in excess of N 10,000 must be declared. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and interna- tional organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nige- ria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Domestic currency accounts Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, and remittance can be effected subject to adequate documentation. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 NIGERIA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Unless a "clean report of findings" has been issued on the goods to be imported, foreign exchange settlements for imports may not be effected. Transactions involving the use of bills for collection and open accounts are allowed. Transactions executed on private sector initiative do not, however, carry any government guarantee or obligation. The remittances are to be made through the interbank foreign exchange market or with autonomous funds, while the relevant shipping documents for the transactions are to be channeled through authorized dealers. All containerized imports, irrespective of their value, are subject to preshipment inspection. Importers are responsible for the payment of 1% of the f.o.b. value of goods as a service charge for the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme. Import payments covered by confirmed LCs are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the understanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents are lodged by importers with the authorized dealers within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. The importation of mosquito repellent coils, sorghum, millet, wheat flour, retreaded or used tires, gypsum, kaolin, and gaming machines is prohibited. Import duties range from zero to 150%, with most goods subject to rates between 5% and 100% (the 150% rate applies only to water). The unweighted average duty is about 12%, except for maize (70%) and bentonites (30%). In addition, the following import surcharges apply: a 5% port development surcharge; a 1% Raw Materials and Development Council surcharge; and a 0.02% freight rate stabilization surcharge earmarked for the Nigerian Shippers Council. Certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. Imports that were duty free in the past are now subject to a duty charge of at least 2.5%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment of the goods. Surrender requirements Non-oil exporters are permitted to sell their export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at interbank rates, or use the funds to finance eligible transactions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Payment for exports should be made with LCs or any other international mode of payment. Repatriated non-oil export proceeds and other inflows should be held in domiciliary ac- counts maintained with authorized dealers in Nigeria. Holders of the domiciliary accounts have easy access to their funds maintained therein, subject to the existing guidelines, and may sell their export proceeds to banks other than those where they maintain their domi- ciliary accounts. Production of unrefined gold and petroleum products is subject to licensing. The exporta- tion of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under certain conditions. Exports of timber (rough and sawn), raw hides and skins, scrap metal, and unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps are prohibited. Exports of pe- troleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Applications for foreign exchange must be submitted to banks; such payments are allowed, subject to documentation requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 705 Trade-related payments Quantitative limits The limit for commissions is 2% on bills for collection. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Transfers of profits are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Applications for the remittance of profits and dividends from capital investment are made through authorized dealers and do not require prior approval, but are subject to documenta- tion requirements. Interest on bills for collection transactions is subject to a maximum of 2% above the prime rate prevailing in the country of the beneficiary. Up to 100% of net salary after tax may be transferred abroad, subject to a documentation requirement. Indicative limits/bona fide test Evidence of income earned must be provided. Other payments Up to 5% of consulting and legal fees for projects of a high technological content, for which local expertise is not available, may be remitted. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be received through banks. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds All proceeds from oil companies are sold directly to banks, including the CBN. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Applications for private capital transfers abroad are processed by banks, subject to satisfactory documentation. No prior approval is required, except in the case of the Debt Conversion Program (DCP). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions may be conducted through authorized dealers. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments Residents of Nigeria may deal in foreign currency securities and may buy from, or sell to, nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without any prior approval. The DCP regulates the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments (mainly CBN promissory notes arising from past consolidation of unsecured trade credit arrears) at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds on the conversion of such debt. Purchase abroad by residents While documented investments are permitted, the transfer to external accounts is not. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 NIGERIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Permission of the FMF is not required for nonresident individuals or companies (other than banks) registered in Nigeria that are controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable companies to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges pay- able thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Approval is not required from the FMF for any individual, firm, company, or branch res- ident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. However, official agencies and state-controlled cor- porations need the prior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the FMF. There are no ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission deals with all matters relating to registration and the prescription of applicable incentives for direct capital investment in priority areas. Approval of the FMF is not needed. Capital proceeds arising from the subsequent disposal of investments made under the DCP may only be repatriated 10 years after the effective investment of the proceeds, and is limited to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions should not exceed $500, or the equivalent, at a time. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing1 abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 707 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements are not computed on foreign exchange deposits. Liquid asset requirements Liquid assets are not computed on foreign exchange deposits. Investment regulations Abroad by banks CBN approval is required. In banks by nonresidents The inflow of funds is subject to the provisions of the Money Laundering Decree. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts April 15. A debt-rescheduling agreement with Paris Club creditors entered into force. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 11, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Norway is the Norwegian krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Effective March 29, 2001, Norway adopted an inflation targeting framework as anchor of monetary policy. Based on additional information on how the exchange rate is determined, effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Norway has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no prean- nounced path for the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments between residents in foreign currency may be effected only through transfers from the payer's to the payee's account. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. The Bank of Norway (BN) exercises control in cooperation with the MOF. On February 27, 2002, the Norwegian authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq. Blocked accounts and restric- tions on financial transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are lim- ited to certain Yugoslav citizens. No. No. A resident or nonresident who on entry into or departure from Norway is carrying Norwe- gian and/or foreign banknotes and coins equivalent to more than NKr 25,000 a person a journey is obliged to notify the Customs Administration on the prescribed form. A resident or nonresident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, courier, or other form of transport containing Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equivalent to more than NKr 25,000, is obliged to notify the BN in writing. 708 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 709 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. There is a notification and reporting requirement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the previous 12 months exceed NKr 100 million. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad There is a notification and reporting requirement if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the previous 12 months exceed NKr 100 million. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The regulations governing accounts in domestic currency held abroad apply. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. In accordance with UN resolutions, it is prohibited to alter, transfer, or remove abroad any deposit made by Iraqi authorities, enterprises, or citizens. There are restrictions on deposits made in the country by certain Yugoslav citizens. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. All imports from Iraq are prohibited, and there are restrictions on trade with and payments to or from certain Yugoslav citizens. Restrictions on trade with Libya have been suspended. Yes. Yes. Certain measures are imposed for sanitary or phytosanitary reasons or in order to satisfy labeling requirements. Under the EEA agreement and other preferential agreements, most imports are not taxed. In general, tariffs on industrial goods are low, while tariffs on agricultural products are higher. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 710 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes NORWAY Exports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The BN has issued no foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. No. No. The BN has issued no foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward investment and establishment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents A bank's holdings of domestic and foreign shares may not exceed 4% of its total assets. No one may hold more than 10% of the share capital in a Norwegian financial institution, except foreign financial institutions, which may hold more than 50%, provided that the other shareholders are financial institutions. Open foreign exchange position limits Credit institutions and investment firms are subject to exposure regulations. Net positions of up to 15% of the institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition NORWAY 7 11 individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 30% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. Insurance companies and pension funds are subject to controls regarding classes of invest- ments held against technical provisions to ensure a sufficiently diversified portfolio (e.g., there is a combined cap of 35% on domestic and foreign shares). There are no currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for investment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance and pension funds for which net fi- nancial assets in a currency have to be equivalent to at least 80% of technical provisions in the same currency at any time. An insurance company cannot have negative financial assets in a currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws Other controls are included in the Act on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Management. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement March 29. Norway adopted an inflation targeting framework as anchor of monetary policy. June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Norway was reclassified to the category inde- pendently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 27. The Norwegian authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terror- ism in accordance wit the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19,1974. Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the rial Omani is pegged to the dollar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. No. The Central Bank of Oman (CBO) has exclusive exchange control authority; there is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions Restrictions are imposed with respect to Israel. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Gold transactions with Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents are not allowed to maintain domestic currency accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. 712 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN 713 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for imports. Companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products, as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Customs duties range from 5% for most goods to 100% for alcoholic beverages. The custom duty rate for luxury goods is 5%. Customs duties are not levied on government imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. Remittances of profits and dividends by commercial banks require prior approval from the CBO. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 OMAN Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign share ownership in Omani companies is limited to 49%, but it may be raised to 100%. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits The Oman Development Bank may provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sec- tors; it may also give assistance in preinvestment research. In addition, the government provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects with an Omani majority shareholding that are used for industrial production for export, industrial production using indigenous raw materials or labor, or the development of tourism. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment in business firms in Oman by nonresidents requires prior approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No. Yes. Yes. No. Overall foreign borrowing by individual commercial banks is restricted to 300% of their net worth. Subceilings of 200% and 100% are applicable for foreign loans with maturity periods of up to five years and up to two years, respectively. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is limited to 30% of the lending bank's net worth with a sublimit of 5% for an individual nonresident borrower. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 40% of banks' capital and reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations All current international transactions are conducted in the interbank exchange market. No. No. There is a forward market. The maximum tenure of forward cover provided by banks for trade transactions is 12 months, and these facilities are also provided for funds transferred from abroad for portfolio investment. Until April 1, 2002, when this practice was discontinued, forward exchange cover for pri- vate foreign currency deposits, except for deposits brought under FE Circular 45 of 1985, was provided by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), which charged an annual fee of 8% on onshore dollar deposits to bring them in line with the rates in the interbank forward foreign exchange market. For deposits made under FE Circular 45 of 1985, the forward cover fee was 5.5%. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Pakistan is a member of the ACU. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU for current transactions are effected in AMUs, at the rate of AMU 1 per $1. Accounts are settled every two months. The SBP has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, and to sell or purchase foreign exchange within limits prescribed by the SBP for different transactions. Banks are allowed to provide foreign exchange in excess of the prescribed limit for bona fide requirements. In addition, the SBP issues licenses to moneychangers for sale and purchase of foreign currency. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 715 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 716 PAKISTAN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports There is no control on local trade in gold bullion. The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the SBP; such permission is not usually granted. Imports are allowed through dealers authorized by the government. An individual may take out up to PRs 500 to India and PRs 3,000 to other countries. No one may take out of Pakistan foreign currency in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent without permission. Domestic currency An individual may bring in up to PRs 500 from India and PRs 3,000 from other countries. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authorized dealers (ADs) and nonbank financial institutions are allowed to offer a new foreign currency account (FCA) scheme. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase special dollar bonds of the government of Pakistan against the outstanding balances in their FCAs or to convert the foreign currency into Pakistan rupees. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, and for- eign currency notes. However, receipts from exports of goods and services, earnings from services of residents, earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan firms or companies and banks, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. FCAs maintained by resident corporate bodies or legal entities may not be credited with foreign currency purchased in the kerb market. Amounts of incremental deposits made on or after July 1, 1998, in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be permanently retained, and an upper ceiling on the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to five years) is fixed by the SBP with government ap- proval. The rates are based on the eurodollar deposit bid rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the eurodollar deposit bid rates range from 0.75% for three-month depos- its to 2% for five-year deposits. Under the new FCA scheme, institutions are free to keep or invest their deposits abroad or in Pakistan. To lend these deposit funds to borrowers in Pakistan, ADs are required to observe prudential regulations of the SBP. However, ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors, provided that it does not exceed LIBOR. Balances of up to the equivalent of $1,000 may be held abroad by residents in any coun- try (except the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, and Israel) in FCAs, which may not be used for operations from Pakistan without the approval of the SBP. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Pakistan nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Paki- stan; and firms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible, as well as diplomatic missions and the staff of international organizations, may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 717 open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the SBP. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark (through December 31, 2001), dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Paki- stan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan ru- pees. If Pakistan nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. ADs under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $0.5 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least six months. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 1% above LIBOR. The sale of foreign currencies to nonresident bank branches and correspondents against credit balances avail- able in their nonresident rupee accounts does not require prior SBP approval. There are no restrictions on the opening of FCAs by diplomatic missions or by staff of international organizations. Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase dollar bonds of the government of Pakistan against outstanding balances in their FCAs. Funds mobilized under the new FCA scheme are not required to be surrendered to the SBP nor does the SBP provide forward cover in respect of such accounts. ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts. (Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of individu- als, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand.) Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for non- bank nonresidents without prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remit- tance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without prior approval. Domestic currency accounts are convertible into foreign currency when opened as convertible rupee accounts with funds received from abroad. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Advance payments of up to 33.33% are allowed by the SBP where the goods are of a specialized or capital nature. Clean-on-board-ship bills of lading and other documentation as stipulated by contracts or LCs are required. Imports valued at or above $10,000 or its equivalent must be documented subsequently with the surrender of a customs bill of entry. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required. Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures A positive list is maintained in respect of imports from India. Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons, and goods banned under international agreements. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 34 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Imports of 17 items on the procedural list require certain technical expertise (e.g., petroleum) or certain conditions (e.g., unassembled cars). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 PAKISTAN Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum customs tariff is 30%, except for motor vehicles and liquor. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated by the due dates of bills of exchange or within four months of shipment. Effective September 28, 2001, this period was extended to six months. Export proceeds may be held in a special exporter's account for up to three working days only for the purpose of sale to an AD. Exporters are permitted to sell their entire proceeds in the intrabank market within three days. Effective September 27, 2001, exporters may retain up to 6% (previously 5%) of f.o.b. value in their FCA for commissions to be paid to agents or importers abroad. As of that date, this limit is 35% for software and service sector exports. Effective December 3, 2001, exporters recording more than 10% in export earnings may keep 50% of the addi- tional earned amount in FCAs. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order, the exporter's registration with the Export Promotion Bureau, and form E. Domiciliation Yes. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is mandatory only for rice exports. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Export licenses are not required; however, registration is required. An export development surcharge of 0.25% is levied on all exports, except for a few specified items. The standard rate of income tax on export proceeds is 1.25%. There are reduced rates of 1% for exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan, and 0.75% for exports of jewelry, ceramics, surgical equipment, and sporting goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There is no restriction on the payment of freight against invoices. Yes. Commissions, brokerage fees, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice values. The rate is 1% for cement and more for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits or bona fide tests for the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign share- holders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies—other than banks and those engaged in insurance, ship- ping, and the airline business—and of dividends to foreign portfolio investors credited to their convertible rupee accounts is permitted without restriction, provided that the required documents are submitted to the SBP. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. ADs are authorized to execute these remittances without prior SBP approval. Prior approval is required for the transfer of profits. Interest payments are allowed up to 1.5% over LIBOR. However, there is no limit on inter- est with respect to project loans. The payment of interest is permitted under imports only on a usance basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide tests for the payment of profits and dividends. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 719 Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Effective November 22, 2001, ADs are allowed to provide additional travel allowances in bona fide cases. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tuition fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from ADs without approval from the SBP. For medical costs, approval is required and is granted on a case-by-case basis. Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at the equivalent of $1,200 a month. For family maintenance and alimony payments, allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There is no limit for individuals with regard to subscriptions and membership fees. For professional and specialized organizations, the limit is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. Prior approval is required for the payment of consulting and legal fees. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds of foreign exchange earnings must be sold to an AD. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Effective September 1, 2001, Pakistani residents, including firms and companies, are allowed to make equity-based investments, including portfolio investments, in compa- nies abroad (i.e., joint ventures) on a repatriable basis. Prior SBP permission is required, however. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents Prior SBP approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP). The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are allowed to trade freely in registered corporate debt instruments and bonds listed on the stock exchange, in federal investment bonds (FIBs), and in treasury bills (TBs). Foreign bank branches in Pakistan and foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to make investments in registered, listed corporate debt instruments in the primary and secondary markets. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 720 PAKISTAN Sale or issue abroad by residents Specific permission is required, which is granted if the proceeds of the bonds are to be used for the import of plants and machinery. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase of certificates of investment (COIs), Pakistan investment bonds (PIBs), IBs, and term finance certificates (TFCs) by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the sale of COIs, TBs, and TFCs purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents are, however, not permitted to issue such instruments in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the SECP. The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase units of the National Investment Trust, the State Enterprise Mutual Fund of the Investment Corporation of Pakistan, and other mutual funds listed on the Pakistan stock exchanges. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents may sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the SECP. The pro- ceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only rights shares exist. There are no other derivatives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted, except for rights issues. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits of up to six months with respect to exported goods, and up to 12/4 years with respect to the export of plants and machinery, are permitted. To residents from nonresidents Residents have been granted general permission with certain conditions. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities There are no controls on these payments; however, parent companies of multinationals are also permitted to provide loans for financing the foreign currency cost of projects, as well as working-capital requirements. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are allowed with certain controls. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to compliance with other credit restrictions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires prior approval under foreign exchange laws. Resident Pakistan nationals require prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or immovable as- sets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment PAKISTAN 721 banking channels. Effective September 1, 2001, Pakistan residents, including firms and companies, are allowed to make equity-based investments, including portfolio investments, in companies abroad (i.e., joint ventures) on a repatriable basis. Prior SBP permission is required, however. No prior approval is required for investment in the manufacturing sector, and foreign inves- tors are allowed to hold equity up to 100%. Investment in new industrial units for the manufacture of alcohol (except industrial alcohol) is banned. Investment in the specified industries of arms and ammunitions, security printing, currency and minting, high explo- sives, and radioactive substances requires prior approval. Foreigners are permitted to make investments in services, infrastructure, social, and agriculture sectors, subject to the condi- tion that the foreign equity investment must be at least $300,000 or its equivalent. Foreign investors may hold 100% foreign equity in the social and infrastructure sectors. In the case of the services sector, they may hold 100% of foreign equity for five years, subject to the following conditions: (1) remittance of profits and dividends are restricted to 60% of total equity during the five-year period; and (2) a minimum of 40% of the equity is transferred to Pakistan investors within five years' time, including disinvestment through the stock exchange. Private and public limited companies engaged in corporate agriculture fanning are allowed to invest abroad up to 100% of equity, with no minimum amount of foreign investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Sale locally by nonresidents Sales of real estate by nonresidents engaged in real estate businesses are permitted. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Up to PRs 500 is permitted. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittance is not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to borrow locally for their working- capital requirements of up to 100% of their paid capital, reserves, etc., subject to obser- vance of all other nonbank financial institutions' rules. Effective March 2, 2002, all banks are required to maintain domestically not less than 80% (previously 85%) of their assets against time and demand liabilities as specified in Part A of Form X, as prescribed in Rule 17 of the Banking Companies Rules of 1963. Transactions are allowed for temporary periods, and only if they become necessary for the normal course of business. Prior to April 2, 2001, commercial banks and other credit institutions were allowed to maintain foreign accounts with limits on balances that were fixed by the SBP. Effective that date, these limits were eliminated. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are no locally issued foreign currency certificates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 722 PAKISTAN Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds in Pakistan freely. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. Reserve requirements In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. Liquid asset requirements In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks This is linked to the respective London interbank bidding rate (LIBID). Yes. In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. This is linked to the respective LIBID. All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds in Pakistan freely. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Prior approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open position balances in nostro accounts are regulated by the SBP. Effective August 31, 2001, the limits on banks' nostro accounts were eliminated. There is an aggregate foreign exchange exposure limit for each bank equivalent to 10% of its paid-up capital, with maxi- mum and minimum limits of PRs 500 million and PRs 50 million (in foreign currency), respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to issue securities in Pakistan, and residents require specific permission to make portfolio investments abroad. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2001 September 27. Exporters were allowed to retain up to 6% (previously 5%) of f.o.b. value in their FCA for commissions to be paid to agents or importers abroad. September 28. The length of time after shipment within which proceeds must be repatriated was extended to six months from four months. December 3. Exporters recording more than 10% in export earnings were allowed to keep 50% of the additional earned amount in FCAs. November 22. ADs were allowed to provide additional travel allowances in bona fide cases. September I. Pakistan residents, including firms and companies, were allowed to make equity-based investments, including portfolio investments, in companies abroad (i.e., joint ventures) on a repatriable basis, with prior SBP permission. April 2. The limits on the maintenance of accounts abroad were eliminated. August 31. The limits on banks' nostro accounts were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 723 Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2002 April 1. The official cover of forward operations was discontinued. March 2. All banks were required to maintain domestically not less than 80% (previously 85%) of their assets against time and demand liabilities as specified in Part A of Form X, as prescribed in Rule 17 of the Banking Companies Rules of 1963. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 16, 1997. Currency The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar, which circulates freely. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Palau participates in PACER and PICTA. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. No. No. No. No. n.r. n.a. n.r. No. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 724 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked accounts No. PALAU 725 Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of controlled substances, guns, ammunition, nonquarantined fruits, live plants, and animals is restricted. The tariff for general imports is 3%; government, personal, medical, and food imports are exempted. The tariff for cigarettes is $0.50 per 20, and for tobacco it is 150% ad valorem. Cosmetics and toiletries have a tariff of 25%; carbonated soft drinks, $0.10 per 12 ounces; beer, $0.03 per ounce; liquor, $0.30 per ounce; wine, $0.20 per ounce; wine coolers, $0.05 per ounce; liquid fuel, $0.05 per gallon; and vehicles, 5% ad valorem plus $250. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. No. Yes. Export taxes are levied on fish at $0.25 per kilo. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 PALAU Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Palau National Code restricts foreign direct investment without local ownership. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents According to the constitution, only citizens of Palau and corporations wholly owned by citizens of Palau may acquire title to land or waters in Palau. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Specific provisions apply only to the Palau National Development Bank, which is not involved in commercial banking. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 26,1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Panama is the Panamanian balboa. It is the unit of account and is limited to coins. Other legal tender The dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The currency of Panama is pegged to the dollar at the rate of B 1 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. No. Official payment arrears are maintained in the case of holders of nonrestructured bonds who cannot be identified. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers require a license if effected by residents other than the monetary authorities. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 727 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 728 PANAMA Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. For rice products, pork meat, poultry meat, and tomato paste and puree, a contingent mechanism exists that was negotiated under the WTO agreement to facilitate the ex- change of permits, thereby allowing imports of these products at preferential tariff rates. All tariff rates are calculated on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Trade reform has resulted in simplified tariff bands of zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. The exceptions to the maximum tariff of 15% are automobiles (17%) and sugar (50% on imports exceeding a historical average price range). Also included are several other products (mainly foodstuffs) whose tariffs are the maximum (and declining) levels negotiated with the WTO, including dairy products (90-173%); rice (130%); onions (90%); beef (40%); pork (70-90%); boneless and whole hams (83%); some poultry (300%); cab- bages, carrots, celery, and lettuce (32.5%); cooking oils (20-30%); margarine (20%); salt (87%); ketchup (70%); and tomato paste and puree (87%). All imports into the area desig- nated as the Col6n free zone and the newly established export processing zones are exempt from duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of certain drugs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited or restricted. Any prod- uct (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Col6n free zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported without being subject to customs procedures. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost-of-production content of 20%) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20% of value added. Export processing zones are exempt from all taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 729 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea kina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the kina is determined freely in the interbank market in which author- ized banks participate with the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) acting as broker. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all cur- rent transactions with their customers within a maximum spread of 2% between the buying and selling rates. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover with the commercial banks at market-determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its uncovered forward position. Official cover of forward operations The BPNG may intervene in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Residents may not use foreign exchange for any domestic transactions. Papua New Guinea participates in the following arrangements: the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Foreign exchange control is administered by the BPNG under the Central Banking Act. Overall policy is determined by the government with the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 730 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency PAPUA NEW GUINEA 731 The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in their respective mining agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, specific export licenses are required from the BPNG. Travelers wishing to take out domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coins must obtain approval from the BPNG. Domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency they brought in and declared on arrival up to a limit of K 10,000 a year. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident business entities are required to obtain BPNG approval to hold these accounts, except for term deposits placed for a minimum of 90 days. Held abroad These accounts may be held abroad, but BPNG approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Approval from an authorized dealer (AD) is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be maintained, but BPNG approval is required. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval from an AD is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. ADs may approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or li- censing requirements without referring to the BPNG. They may make payments of up to K 5,000 upon presentation of commercial invoices. Payments in excess of K 5,000 require shipping documents, a copy of the customs forms, and commercial invoices. Letters of credit Issuance by ADs is subject to BPNG approval. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security, while others —including sugar, poultry, and pork—are prohibited to protect domestic mar- kets. Imports of most fresh fruits and vegetables are banned (except for apples, onions, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50% tariff rate. Yes. Yes. The import tariff regime consists of the following rates: (1) zero for essential items (includ- ing food staples such as rice and meat not produced domestically); (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods (including some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for intermediate goods; (4) 55% for luxury goods; (5) 15% or 100% for selected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as tinned mackerel and citrus fruits; and (6) 85% for sugar. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The retention period for export proceeds is six months. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export proceeds must be sold to an AD. No. Documentation requirements Customs forms must be submitted to the BPNG or an AD after each shipment. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes When exporters cannot comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the BPNG for specific authorization. Licenses are required for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued based on minimum export price guidelines. Although exports of unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except for levies on fish (10%) and logs (15% to 70%). Export levies also apply to forestry products. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are restrictions on these payments, but approval is readily granted for most of them, provided that supporting documentation is submitted. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for all adult individuals and corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of this amount, except trade- related payments, must be referred to the BPNG. For payments or transfers exceeding the equivalent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Investment-related payments There are no restrictions on dividend or interest payments. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Payments for the servicing of foreign debt require approval from the BPNG or an AD. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 733 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be converted into domestic currency upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, other than those sold to an AD in Papua New Guinea. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments There are no controls on inward portfolio investment. ADs may approve outward invest- ments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year; investments in excess of this limit require the approval of the BPNG. Income from these investments must be repatriated to Papua New Guinea as received. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 734 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Permission is required for these credits; however, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve unlimited offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents—other than busi- nesses involved in the forestry sector or mineral resources exploration—provided that the term is for a minimum of one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the BPNG. Repayment of the principal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commencing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstanding borrowing. In the case of a business involved in mineral resources explo- ration activities, inward investment is considered non-interest bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the minimum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The transferal of proceeds requires BPNG approval. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to BPNG approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws PAPUA NEW GUINEA 735 Securities denominated in foreign exchange may not be issued locally. Foreign currency exposure limits against capital are 15% of a bank's total position and 10% of a single currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 23, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan guarani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The authorities manage the exchange rate in order to maintain the value of the guarani in real effective terms. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Payments between Paraguay and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) and other central banks participat- ing in the multilateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. Yes. The CBP has the authority to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other agencies of the government. In practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the CBP, which is responsible for implementing its decisions. The CBP su- pervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. The CBP regulates open foreign exchange positions. No. No. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior authorization of the CBP. Payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through commercial banks. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 736 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 737 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection All products must be inspected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of certain products that may be harmful to public health, national security, or ani- mal or plant health are prohibited. However, these restrictions may be waived to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Paraguay, as a member of MERCOSUR, applies its GET, which is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay was allowed to exempt 399 items from the GET—these ex- emptions are to be phased out by 2006 by gradually raising tariff rates to 14% on most capital goods, and to 20% on telecommunications equipment. Typical rates on goods ex- empt from the GET are zero for raw materials and intermediate goods; 5% for capital goods; 6% for items for tourism; 10% for consumer goods; 15% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent; and 20% for vehicles whose c.i.f. value exceeds $20,000 or its equivalent. The GBP levies a commission of 0.125% on all import payments made under the LAIA Reciprocal Payments Agreement. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, raw hides, and wild animals are prohib- ited. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. No other exports are restricted, except with regard to technical standards imposed by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 738 PARAGUAY With quotas Export taxes National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the product exported. Exports of wood and wood products of certain trees are subject to quotas because of risk of depletion. The CBP levies a commission of 0.125% on all exports made under the LAIA Reciprocal Payments Agreement. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments There are restrictions on the transfer of profits. Prior approval Only financial enterprises require authorization of the CBP to transfer earnings. The gov- ernment may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and import surcharges on proposed investments that are duly registered and approved. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles, except for royalties and remuneration from the binational entities administering the Itaipu and Yacyreta dams, which are transferred in full to the CBP for the account of the Ministry of Finance. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Yes. No. Nonresidents may purchase foreign exchange forward, up to one year, exclusively for operations relating to trade. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The Superintendency of Banks must be informed of amounts exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent in compliance with anti-money laundering regulations. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Permitted up to a specified proportion of paid-up capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 739 Maintenance of accounts abroad Subject to diversification of depository banks and not to exceed 20% of the local bank's net worth. This limit can be extended up to 70% of the bank's net worth, under special conditions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Permitted up to 5% of the bank's net worth and, subject to approval of a guarantee by the Superintendency of Banks, up to 20%. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits Reserves should be constituted in foreign currency. The required ratios vary according to the maturity of deposits. The reserve requirements are 27% and 15% for foreign and domestic currencies, respectively. The limits are specified in the banking legislation. Effective November 19, 2001, financial entities may maintain daily long and short foreign exchange positions not exceeding the equivalent of 12% and 8%, respectively, of total risk- weighted assets, excluding treasury bonds denominated in foreign exchange and contingent claims at the end of the previous month. In addition, the long and short forward positions may not exceed 0.5% of each financial entity's weighted assets and contingent claims. Prior to that date, commercial banks could maintain a daily foreign exchange overbought position not exceeding 30% of their effective capital, excluding government bonds de- nominated in dollars; credit balances in foreign currency of more than one-year maturity for agriculture and livestock, industrial, and small and medium-size firms; and home and professional service equipment purchases. In addition, the daily foreign exchange over- bought position could not exceed 100% in cases where a bank did not include within its effective capital the above-excluded items; and the daily oversold position could not ex- ceed 75% of effective capital. Banks' overbought and oversold positions could not exceed 5% of their capital. In formulating this position, all foreign exchange components should have been included. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 19. Financial entities were allowed to maintain daily long and short foreign ex- change positions not exceeding the equivalent of 12% and 8%, respectively, of total risk- weighted assets, excluding treasury bonds denominated in foreign exchange and contingent claims at the end of the previous month. In addition, the long and short forward positions could not exceed 0.5% of each financial entity's weighted assets and contingent claims. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Peru is the Peruvian nuevo sol. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined by supply and demand conditions. How- ever, the authorities may intervene in the foreign exchange market at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Cross exchange rates of nondollar cur- rencies are determined against their cross-rate relationships with the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Peru and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. By law, there are no restrictions on any exchange transactions, including holding, using, purchasing, or selling foreign exchange. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Outstanding arrears are due primarily to unguaranteed suppliers, some of which are being discussed with the government of Peru; the remainder has not been located. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 740 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 741 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports may be prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Prior to changes in the tariff structure during April, June, and July 2001 and again on March 16, 2002, there were four basic tariff rates—zero, 4%, 12%, and 20%—with an average of 13.4%. As of March 16, 2002, the tariff rates are 4%, 7%, and 20%, with an average of 10.7%. At the same time, a new zero-tariff grouping was introduced that con- solidates the existing zero-tariff regimes and special trade arrangements—including im- ports of personal belongings and items under international conventions—in accordance with a harmonized system proposed by the Customs Cooperation Council. A temporary surcharge of 5% is applied to some agricultural and agro-industrial goods. Raw materials and intermediate goods imported under the temporary admission regime are exempt from import duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 742 PERU Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits granted by resident financial institutions to financial institutions and to individuals or enterprises (residents or nonresidents) are subject to prudential limits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors As a measure of monetary control, there is a difference between the treatment of deposit accounts in domestic currency and deposit accounts in foreign currency, but there is no discrimination between residents and nonresidents. Deposit accounts in foreign currency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 20%, compared with a reserve requirement of 6% for accounts in domestic currency. The CRBP remunerates the part of the reserve requirement that exceeds the obligatory minimal reserve requirement in foreign currency with the three-month LIBOR rate minus 0.125%. As a measure of prudential regulations, a liquid asset requirement as a percentage of short- term liabilities (20% in foreign currency and 8% in domestic currency) is used. There is a prudential limit of 100% of the net worth over the long foreign exchange posi- tion and a limit of 2.5% over the short foreign exchange position of the financial institution. The securities market in Peru is open to foreign investors. No legal restrictions exist on the purchase or sale of domestic securities by nonresidents or on the purchase or sale of foreign securities by residents. Revenues may be repatriated without restrictions. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The law allows pension funds to invest up to 10% of their portfolio in foreign securities issued by nonresidents. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The law allows pension funds to invest up to 10% of their portfolio in foreign securities issued by nonresidents. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 743 Imports and import payments July 22. The tariff rate structure was modified to comprise four rates, zero, 4%, 12%, and 20% (there were also modifications in April and June). Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments Changes During 2002 March 16. Continuing a process begun in April 2001, the tariff rates were reduced to zero, 4%, 7%, and 20%, with an average of 10.7%, from zero, 4%, 12%, and 20%. At the same time, a new zero-tariff grouping was introduced that consolidates the existing zero-tariff regimes and special trade arrangements in accordance with a harmonized system proposed by the Customs Cooperation Council. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) acts to limit sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and intervenes when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the ex- change market. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Deal- ing System (PDS), an electronic screen-based network. The PDS allows trading between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. daily among Bankers Association of the Philippines member banks and the BSP. The system links participants through an electronic screen-based network allowing them to share information and transact business. The exchange rate of the peso vis-a-vis the dollar at the beginning of the trading day represents the weighted average of all transactions in the PDS during the preceding day. The amount of foreign exchange that may be sold (over-the-counter) without documentation and prior BSP approval is the equivalent of $5,000. No. No. All forward transactions to purchase or renew foreign exchange from nonresidents— including offshore banking units—require prior clearance by the BSP. All forward con- tracts to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents (including offshore banking units) with no fu ll delivery of principal, including cancellations, rollovers, and renewals thereof, require prior clearance by the BSP. Only banks with an expanded derivatives license may enter into transactions covered by nondeliverable forward contracts. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There is no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all foreign exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in the following accept- able currencies: Australian dollars, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Cana- dian dollars, euros, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, yen, and other such currencies that may be declared accept- able by the BSP. Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, pro- vided that the BSP is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this pay- ment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. The use of domestic currency for international payments and receipts is not allowed, except for imports from and exports to ASEAN countries. Yes. 744 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion ) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency PHILIPPINES 745 Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions unless the transaction involves the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system. A bilateral payments agreement is in force with Bank Negara Malaysia since July 11, 1998. The agreement was concluded for one year and has been renewed several times since. On July 18, 2001, the effective date of the agreement was extended indefinitely. Commercial banks accredited by the BSP are the authorized channel for transactions within the frame- work of the agreement. The Philippines is a member of the ASEAN. Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the monetary board. No. No. Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the BSP. All forms or types of gold may be bought and sold without specific approval of the BSP. Producers selling gold to the BSP are paid in pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the pre- vailing peso-dollar exchange rate. Gold acquired in this way is deemed to be part of the official international reserves. The BSP may sell gold dust, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and industrial users, at the BSP's gold-selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including the costs of conversion and packaging. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except gold coin blanks and gold bullion lacking indication of the actual fineness of the gold content; imports of these items are prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers must obtain prior authorization from the BSP to take out more than PI 0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange denominated in pesos. Travelers may export freely any amount of foreign currency, but the export of an amount exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent requires a written declaration that includes the source and the purpose of the currency. Nonresident tourists and emigrants may purchase foreign exchange from the banking system only up to the amount of foreign exchange that they previously sold to the banking system. No proof of previous sale is needed for such depart- ing nonresidents to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos up to a maxi- mum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign currency. Travelers may bring in freely up to PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange denominated in pesos. Imports exceeding this amount require prior authorization from the BSP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 746 Foreign currency PHILIPPINES Travelers may bring in freely any amount of foreign currency, but the import of an amount exceeding $10,000 or its equivalent requires a written declaration that includes the source and the purpose of the currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident peso deposit accounts are allowed, provided they are funded by inward remit- tances of foreign currency or by peso income from nonresidents' properties located in the Philippines, whether real or personal, or proceeds from the conversion thereof. Conversion of domestic currency accounts is allowed only up to the equivalent amount of foreign exchange remitted to the Philippines as well as to the equivalent amount of peso income earned by nonresidents, provided the proceeds derive from a peso time deposit with a maturity of at least 90 days that was registered with the BSP. For funds to be convertible into foreign currency for repatriation abroad, investments in bank deposits must be in pe- sos, must have a maturity of at least 90 days, and must be registered with the BSP. Deposits of proceeds arising from other investments, such as stocks and government securities, are not subject to the 90-day holding period. The BSP registration document, which is issued directly by the BSP for such investments, will be canceled if the investments are terminated before the end of the 90-day period. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for payments of imports under LCs, docu- ments against acceptance (DAs), documents against payments (DPs), open account ar- rangements (OAs), and direct remittances. Registration of DA and OA imports with the BSP is needed only if payments are to be made from the banking system. Payments of DA and OA obligations whose maturities have exceeded 360 days from the date of the draft acceptance, in the case of DAs, or the date of the bill of lading, in the case of OAs, are subject to approval by the BSP. Senior bank officers responsible for the sale of foreign exchange must certify that, in cases other than LCs, DPs, DAs, or OAs, the original documents have been presented and that the bank has taken measures to ensure that the applicant/importer has not purchased foreign exchange from the banking system in excess of the amount of the imports indicated in the invoice. LCs must be opened on or before the date of shipment with a validity period of up to one year. Only one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses PHILIPPINES 747 arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval except when the amend- ment extends the total validity of the LC beyond one year. Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. Imports into the Philip- pines are allowed without restrictions, unless otherwise prohibited by existing laws or rules or otherwise subject to the requirements of prior approval by the appropriate government agencies/committees responsible for implementing the legislation regulating imports. Yes. The importation of certain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of public health and safety, national security, international commitments, and development and rationaliza- tion of local industries. Commodity imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. To import regulated products, a clearance or permit is required from the appropriate government agency (including the BSP). Licenses with quotas Quantitative restrictions are imposed on the imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import tariff structure consists of four rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on im- ported capital goods are 3% and 10%, with the former applying to goods that are not pro- duced locally or are produced locally but not in sufficient quantities. Deviations from the standard rates include the following: (1) up to double the applicable standard rate for im- ports of final goods in industries that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Investment (BOI), and imports of agricultural products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed under the WTO agreement; (2) duty exemptions for certain imported capital goods registered with the BOI prior to January 1, 1995, or subject to provisions of the Ex- port Development Act; (3) duty exemptions for imports of some 300 products falling under the classifications of machinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts used in export manufacturing; (4) a tariff rate of 1% on imports of some selected capital goods not pro- duced locally; and (5) duty exemptions for selected inputs to the agricultural and fishery sectors as provided for under the Agriculture and Fishery Modernization Act. Newly regis- tered firms may obtain duty reductions on eligible imports only up to 3%. Tariff rates in the textile and apparel sectors are 3% for inputs and 20% for final products. BOI certification is required at the time an LC is opened to qualify for the preferential rate of 3% for imports of wire rod. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Payments for exports may be made in acceptable currencies in the following forms with- out prior BSP approval: LCs, DPs, DAs, OAs, intercompany open account offsets, con- signments, and export advances. All exports must be covered by an export declaration, which may be obtained from the BSP, the Bureau of Customs, the Department of Trade and Industry, or any commercial bank. Regulated exports require a prior export clearance from the relevant government agen- cies. These pertain to a few export items—mostly garments and textiles; endangered w i ld l ife species; live animals; and other items regulated for national interest, security, or health reasons. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 748 PHILIPPINES Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Effective July 26, 2001, the amount of foreign exchange an authorized agent bank may sell to residents for any nontrade purpose, without documentation, is $5,000 (previously $10,000) or the equivalent. Also effective this date, a purchaser may make such purchases once every 15 days. This limit is to be applied on a consolidated basis by the bank and its subsidiaries/affiliates, including foreign exchange corporations. Sales of foreign exchange exceeding this limit may be effected only through an authorized agent with a written, nota- rized application and supporting documents. Similarly, a notarized application with sup- porting documentation is required for purchases of foreign exchange exceeding the equiva- lent of $5,000 by residents for trade and nontrade purposes from corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading that are subsidiaries or affiliates of banks, quasi-banks, or non- bank financial intermediaries. These corporations may not sell foreign exchange to non- residents and are subject to the same rules as banks regarding their trading activities. Such corporations are prohibited from selling foreign exchange to pay obligations to residents other than banks or to deposit the foreign exchange in a foreign currency deposit unit (FCDU) account. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval The BSP regulates foreign currency loans to ensure that interest and principal owed to creditors can be serviced in an orderly manner and with due regard to the economy's over- all debt-servicing capacity. Pursuant to the Philippines Constitution, all public and private sector publicly guaranteed obligations from foreign creditors, including offshore banking units and FCDUs, are referred to the BSP for prior approval. Other private sector loans from these creditors and other financing schemes/arrangements require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Foreign currency borrowings from FCDUs with a maturity ex- ceeding one year are governed by the same guidelines. In the case of short-term FCDU loans, including those obtained by the private sector, no prior BSP approval is required, provided the borrower/project qualifies for foreign financing. Service payments relating to foreign loans effected with purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has previously been registered with the BSP or are specifically authorized by the BSP to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system. Unregistered loans may be serviced with foreign exchange originating from outside the banking system. Quantitative limits The ceiling is set yearly and is approved by the Monetary Board of the BSP. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 749 Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Capital Transactions Inward investments need not be registered with the BSP. However, only BSP-registered foreign loans and foreign investments may be serviced or paid back with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading that are subsidiaries or affiliates of banks, quasi-banks, or nonbank financial intermediaries may not sell foreign exchange to nonresidents and are subject to the same rules as banks regarding their trading activities. Such corporations are prohibited from selling foreign exchange to pay obligations to resi- dents other than banks or to deposit the foreign exchange in an FCDU account. Foreign investors must hold peso time deposits for a minimum of 90 days and register them with the BSP to be able to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system for capital repatriation/outward remittance of earnings. However, funds in 90-day time deposit ac- counts may be withdrawn before maturity and invested in other eligible instruments to enable the investor to remit the proceeds thereof at any time, using foreign exchange from the banking system. There is no minimum holding period for all other types of eligible investments, such as equities, government securities, or commercial papers. Divestment of sales proceeds of registered foreign investments, except for 90-day time deposits that were withdrawn before maturity, may be deposited with any bank in any deposit account, with fu ll repatriation privileges in accordance with existing rules. In the event of early withdrawal, the BSP will cancel the registration document that is necessary for the repatriation of funds. As a general rule, registration with the BSP or designated custodian bank is not mandatory. Registration is necessary only if the source of the foreign exchange needed for capital repa- triation and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the banking system. The sale or issue of securities in the Philippines is allowed only after the proper license to do business in the country is secured by the nonresident from the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issue does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system. Residents may invest abroad without prior approval and subsequent registration of their investments with the BSP only if (1) the investments are funded by withdrawals from FCDUs; (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to authorized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the banking system but in amounts of less than $6 million or the equivalent for an investor a year. For amounts above that, prior approval and registration with the BSP is required. Outward investments of domestic banks, however, are required to be registered with the BSP regardless of the amount. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 750 PHILIPPINES Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Registration with the BSP or a designated custodian bank may be made at the option of the investor. In addition, proceeds from sales of international allocations of initial public offer- ings (IPOs) and shares of domestic companies listed in foreign stock exchanges must also be reported to the BSP within five days from receipt and remitted to the country. The ser- vicing or transfer of funds pertaining to registered investments using foreign exchange from the banking system in this category is allowed without BSP approval. Registration with the BSP is necessary only if the foreign exchange needed for capital repa- triation and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon is purchased from the banking system. These transactions are allowed only after the proper license to do business in the country is secured from the appropriate government agency, provided payment for the sale or issue does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system. Amounts above the equivalent of $6 million originating in the banking system require prior approval and registration with the BSP. These transactions are subject to prior approval by the BSP if the principal and interest amortization are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system or guaranteed by public sector entities or local banks. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior BSP approval is required. Only banks and nonbank financial intermediaries perform- ing quasi-banking functions and their affiliates/subsidiaries duly authorized by the BSP are allowed to deal in derivative transactions. All forward contracts to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents (including offshore banking units) with no fu ll delivery of principal, including cancellations or rollovers/renewals thereof, are to be submitted for prior clearance to the BSP. Yes. Yes. Yes. Loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs and offshore sources and nonresi- dent loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer require prior BSP approval, except if said loans are guaranteed by the public sector or by local banks. Prior BSP approval and registration are required for short-term, trade-related foreign loans by nonbank residents, which are guaranteed by the public sector or by local banks. For those not covered by such guarantees, prior authority to incur the obligation is not required. These loans are still subject, however, to the registration requirement for debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Loans of nonresidents from expanded foreign currency deposit units (EFCDUs), irrespec- tive of maturity, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us- ing foreign exchange purchased from outside the banking system; and (2) all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with, including the single borrower's limit, which is defined to include lending and guarantees issued to companies, their subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stockholders all over the world. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment PHILIPPINES 751 Credits require prior BSP approval. The usual controls on outward remittances and registration requirements apply. As a general rule, all foreign loans contracted by nonbank residents with guarantees from the public sector or from local commercial banks require prior BSP approval or registra- tion. Those not covered by such guarantees likewise generally require prior BSP approval and registration to make them eligible for subsequent debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Loans of resident private sector borrowers from FCDUs/offshore sources and nonresident loans serviced by foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system no longer require prior BSP approval. Guarantees for the account of the public sector in favor of nonresidents, as well as those issued by corporations owned or controlled by the government, require prior BSP approval. Specific guarantees for the account of the private sector covering foreign obligations other than foreign loans do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for regis- tration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Guarantees issued by foreign banks and financial institutions to secure obligations of resi- dents involved in foreign lending operations require prior BSP approval. Those issued to secure authorized peso loans or FCDU loans, as well as foreign obligations (which do not involve foreign lending) of local firms, do not require prior approval but must be reported to the BSP for registration purposes to be eligible for debt servicing using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system in the event of a default by the principal debtor. An applicant's income tax return must be submitted to support an application to purchase foreign exchange from the banking system—not to exceed the equivalent of $6 million an investor a year —for outward investment without prior BSP approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment As a general rule, BSP-registered foreign investments enjoy fu ll and immediate repatriation of capital and remittance of profits, dividends, and other earnings. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Ownership of land by nonresidents, as well as the exploration, development, and use of natural resources, is limited to 40% equity and is subject to the provisions of the Philippines Constitution. These sales are allowed, subject to legal and constitutional limits. If their proceeds are to be repatriated abroad using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, the transaction must be registered with the BSP as a foreign investment. No private land may be transferred or conveyed except to individuals, corporations, or associations qualified to acquire or hold land of the public domain. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks with foreign exchange trading corporations as subsidiaries or affiliates must make available on a daily basis the names of counterparties and other details of purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks authorized to operate only under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may borrow with short-term maturities from other FCDUs, nonresidents, and off- shore banking units, subject to existing rules on foreign borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 PHILIPPINES Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the following modes of payment without prior BSP approval: (1) LCs; (2) DPs or cash against payment; (3) DAs; (4) OAs; (5) intercompany open account offsets; (6) consignments; and (7) export ad- vances. Commercial banks, which are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system, may grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents, irrespective of maturity, without prior approval of the BSP, provided that the loan is serviced using foreign exchange purchased from outside the banking system; and all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with, including all limits of lending to a single borrower, which are defined to include lendings and guarantees issued to companies, their subsidiaries, af- filiates, and major stockholders all over the world. Banks, including thrift banks, that are authorized to operate FCDUs may grant only short- term foreign currency loans, with BSP authorization. The following foreign currency loans may be granted by FCDUs of commercial banks without prior BSP approval: private sector loans, if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange obtained outside the banking system; short-term loans to financial institutions for normal interbank transactions; and short-term loans to commodity and service exporters, and producers/manufacturers, provided that the loan proceeds are to be used to finance the import costs of goods and services necessary in the production of goods. In the case of exporters, FCDU loans may also be used to finance the import cost of goods and services in local currency. EFCDUs of commercial banks may invest in foreign currency-denominated securities. An FCDU of a thrift bank may only invest in foreign currency-denominated debt instruments that are of short-term maturity and readily marketable. The reserve requirement applied to peso deposits and deposit substitute liabilities of univer- sal and commercial banks, as well as nonbank financial intermediaries with quasi-banking functions, was 18% in December 2001 and was further reduced to 16% on January 31, 2002. A reserve requirement is not applied to deposit accounts in foreign exchange. Depositary banks with FCDUs and EFCDUs must maintain at all times 100% cover for their foreign currency liabilities. At least 30% of the cover requirement for these liabilities must be in the form of liquid assets. Effective January 1, 2002, the liquidity reserve re- quirement against peso demand, savings, time deposits, and deposit substitute liabilities of commercial and universal banks, as well as financial institutions with quasi-banking functions, was reduced to 7% from 9%. The regular reserve requirement remains at 9%. Foreign ownership of domestic banks is allowed up to 100%. Foreign juridical and natural persons may own 40%. However, banks that are a majority foreign owned may not account for more than 30% of the total reserves of the banking system. For FCDUs of commercial banks and expanded commercial banks, at least 70% of the cover must be maintained in the same currency as the liability and up to 30% may be de- nominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. FCDUs of thrift banks must maintain the foreign currency cover in the same currency as that of the corresponding foreign currency deposit liability. The limit set on a bank's long (overbought) foreign exchange position may not exceed 5% of its unimpaired capital or the equivalent of $10 million, whichever is lower; no limit is set on short (oversold) foreign exchange positions. Any excess beyond the overbought limit must be settled daily. The BSP imposes sanctions for the violation of open position limits. No differential treatment is ascribed to resident and nonresident deposit accounts with re- spect to liquid asset requirements, as all depository banks within the foreign currency de- posit system are required to maintain at all times a 100% asset cover for their foreign cur- rency liabilities, of which 30% must be liquid. Foreign exchange trading corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading activities and that are not subsidiaries of banks must report monthly their purchases, sales, and daily foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws PHILIPPINES 753 Except as may be authorized by the monetary board, total equity investments in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by an investment house with quasi-banking functions may not at any time exceed 15% of its net worth. Outward investments by residents in amounts exceeding $6 million or the equivalent require prior approval and registration by the BSP. For amounts below that amount, the funds to be invested may be purchased from authorized agent banks, subject to BSP documentary requirements. As a general rule, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the public within the country unless such securities have been registered and are permitted to be sold by the Se- curities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded in a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Philippines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesman must register with the SEC to do business in the country. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 18. The bilateral payments agreement with Bank Negara Malaysia was extended indefinitely. Changes During 2001 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 26. The amount of foreign exchange that authorized agent banks may sell to residents for any nontrade purpose without documentation was reduced to the equivalent of $5,000 from $10,000. Further, a purchaser may make such purchases once every 15 days. July 26. Foreign exchange corporations engaged in foreign exchange trading activities, and which are subsidiaries or affiliates of banks, quasi-banks, and nonbank financial intermedi- aries, were required to submit written, notarized applications and supporting documentation when effecting sales of foreign exchange to residents for trade and nontrade purposes exceeding $5,000. Changes During 2002 January 31. The reserve requirement applied to peso deposits and deposit substitute liabili- ties of universal and commercial banks and nonbank financial intermediaries with quasi- banking functions was reduced to 16% from 18%. January 31. The liquidity reserve requirement against peso demand, savings, time deposits, and deposit substitute liabilities of commercial and universal banks, as well as financial institutions with quasi-banking functions, was reduced to 7% from 9%, while the regular reserve requirement remains unchanged at 9%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Currency The currency of Poland is the Polish zloty. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the zloty is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market, and the zloty is traded freely against all currencies. No. No. Forward exchange market A liquid swap market exists. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. There are agreements with Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey. Out- standing balances are being settled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Poland is a member of the CEFTA. There are inoperative agreements with members of the former CMEA. The authority to make basic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests with parliament. Regulations are promulgated by the MOF, in cooperation with the president of the National Bank of Poland (NBP). Individual permits are granted by the president of the NBP. Deci- sions concerning individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the NBP, foreign exchange banks, border guards, custom authorization authorities, and post offices. International security restrictions Yes. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, Poland imposed and maintained a ban on trade with Iraq and on exports of certain products to Libya. The Polish government bans, in line with relevant UN Security Council resolutions, exports of arms and military equip- ment to the following countries: Angola (for UNITA forces), Haiti, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, and Somalia. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Resident individuals may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewelry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. 754 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 755 Controls on external trade Foreign exchange regulations restrict trading in gold and the exportation of gold coins (money coined after 1850). However, the exportation of gold coins issued by the NBP is permitted. Coins made from precious metals are not legal tender in Poland. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad The exportation of foreign or domestic currency with a total value exceeding the equivalent of €20,000 requires permission. Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of €5,000 in any currency without documentary proof of origin. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of returning to Poland. Polish nationals may take abroad up to €5,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts ex- ceeding this limit. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of re- turning to Poland. For official and business travel, allowances are based on separate reg- ulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Imports of domestic or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €5,000 should be reported to the customs administration authorities. Residents and nonresidents may import up to the equivalent of €5,000 in any currency without notification to the customs authorities. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign ex- change within two months of returning to Poland. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange and domestic means of payment within two months after returning to Poland. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Residents (individuals and enterprises) carrying out economic activities abroad may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad to cover the costs of such activities. Residents are also allowed to hold accounts opened abroad, but quarterly balances in these accounts must be reported to the NBP. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The regulations for foreign exchange accounts held abroad also apply to these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. These accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on an agreement with the bank, and they may be credited with funds from any source that is in compliance with foreign exchange regulations. Conversion into foreign currency and/or transfer abroad of term de- posits with a maturity of less than three months and for amounts exceeding Zl 500,000, however, is prohibited. These accounts may be converted into foreign currency. Approval is required for term deposits in foreign exchange held abroad in amounts exceeding Zl 500,000 and with maturities of less than three months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 POLAND Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment; specific substances that deplete the ozone layer; nutritive gelatin; used textile articles; articles for fairs; table or parlor games; alcoholic beverages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from bituminous minerals; gasoline and light oils; natural gas and other gaseous hydrocar- bons; coal; and goods for industrial assembly of motor vehicles. Imports of specific ozone-depleting substances and goods are prohibited. Until January 1, 2002, imports of the following were prohibited: passenger cars and other passenger vehi- cles older than 10 years; trucks, vans, other utility cars, and passenger vehicles older than 3 years for transportation of more than 10 persons; cars with two-cycle engines; and combine harvesters. Imports of petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals originating from the Czech Republic or the Russian Federation are subject to quantitative quotas. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. Import tariffs are based on the Harmonized System and the Com- bined Nomenclature of the EU, with six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; up to 3% on other raw materials; 6% to 9% on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 12% to 25% on industrial goods; 25% to 30% on agriculture and textile products; and 30% on luxury goods. Imports from develop- ing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 45 de- veloping countries, tropical products, and many goods that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland duty-free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Duties and taxes on imports for export production are re- funded. Imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds should be repatriated immediately. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports carried out within the framework of international agree- ments that stipulate bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing motor vehicles. Licenses are required for exports of radioactive materials and military equipment, as well as of goods subject to export quotas. Exports of specific species of live poultry and ozone- depleting goods are prohibited, as are exports of petroleum oils and oils obtained from bi- tuminous minerals to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Exports of waste and scrap of copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 757 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers When payments exceed €20,000, all current operations must be effected through domestic banks. Residents and nonresidents must document the payments or transfers to the bank if these exceed €20,000. Credit card use abroad Credit card use abroad is permitted, but the transactions must comply with regulations. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated immediately. Natural persons receiving proceeds while they are abroad must repatriate these proceeds within two months of returning to Poland. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of Polish securities by nonresidents may be effected freely, except for shares that may be subject to Poland's restrictions on foreign direct investment. Purchases by non- residents of securities with a maturity of less than one year require a permit. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permit is required for publicly traded securities. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents A foreign exchange permit is required for residents to make portfolio investments in se- curities issued by nonresidents not domiciled or headquartered in OECD countries or in countries that have no mutual investment promotion or mutual protection agreements with Poland. This regulation does not apply when residents acquire securities without paying. Residents need a foreign exchange permit to purchase securities with a maturity of less than one year. Residents are permitted to sell securities only in OECD countries or in the countries with which Poland has concluded agreements on the mutual promotion and protection of investments. Residents need a foreign exchange permit to sell or issue securities with a maturity of less than one year. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NBP approval is required, except for transactions carried out by the treasury, authorized banks, and other authorized financial institutions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents NBP approval and SEC notification are required. Purchase abroad by residents NBP approval is required, except for transactions carried out by authorized banks and other authorized financial institutions. Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is required for maturities of less than one year. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 758 POLAND Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Financial derivative instruments listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange and CeTO S.A. may be traded freely. Authorized banks and other authorized financial institutions may carry out these operations freely. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Authorized institutions may effect these transactions freely. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits The NBP must be notified within 20 days. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits Financial credits with maturities of less than one year require a permit. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Financial credit operations carried out by domestic banks with nonresidents that result in a zloty debt with a maturity of less than one year are prohibited if the transaction exceeds the equivalent of €50,000. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for guarantee transactions related to claims resulting from restricted foreign exchange transactions. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for direct investments, with the exception of the purchase of shares and interests in companies based in OECD countries and in the countries with which Poland has ratified agreements on the mutual promotion and pro- tection of investments. The foreign exchange law does not impose controls on these transactions but does contain sectoral restrictions. The transfer of profits from joint ventures and from shares in Polish companies is not re- stricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are discharged. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required when natural persons residing in Poland purchase real estate located abroad if the purchase price is in excess of the equivalent of €50,000. An exchange permit is also required for the transfer abroad of the foreign currency used for the purchase of such real estate. Nonresidents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of the Interior, except when in the form of an inheritance. Under the Law on Acquisition of Real Estate by Foreigners, foreigners may also acquire real estate without a permit if (1) it is a separate apartment; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least five years after obtaining a permanent residence visa; (3) they have been mar- ried to a Polish citizen for at least two years (the purchased real estate must constitute a part of matrimonial community property); or (4) real estate is purchased by nonresident juridical persons for statutory purposes, and the area of real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban areas. The Council of Ministers may issue a regulation defining other cases where a permit is not required, provided that the area of acquired real estate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 759 does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban and 10,000 square meters in rural areas. The Council of Ministers may also extend the area to be acquired without permit to 12,000 square meters in urban and 30,000 square meters in rural areas. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans There are no controls on family loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBP approval is needed for gifts above the equivalent of €10,000. To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad There are controls on short-term borrowing. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are permitted to purchase securities abroad within the limits specified in the regula- tion of the president of the NBP on the types of securities issued abroad to be purchased by authorized banks. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks are not allowed to hold for nonresidents zloty-denominated time deposit accounts with a maturity of less than three months for amounts exceeding Zl 500,000. Reserve requirements The reserve requirement on foreign currency accounts differs from that on zloty accounts. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents A foreign exchange permit is required for deposits made by nonresidents exceeding Zl 500,000 and maturing in less than three months. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors A bank's open (net) foreign currency position (long or short) in relation to a single foreign currency may not exceed 15% of the bank's capital. The president of the NBP, on the bank's request, may consent to foreign currency paid for equity to be included in the computation of the bank's foreign currency position. In compliance with EU directives, an MOF permit is required to commence insurance busi- ness; an MOF permit is required for investments in the shares of insurance companies, allowing for 25%, 50%, and 75% control of votes at general shareholders' meetings; and prudential regulations establishing limits for the investment of insurance funds in the coun- try and abroad are provided by the act on insurance operating activity. Open pension funds are allowed to invest not more than 5% of their assets abroad, and such investments may only be in OECD member countries or in countries with which Poland has entered into agreements on the promotion and protection of investments. Further, these investments may only be in (1) securities issued by companies listed on major stock ex- changes; (2) securities issued by treasuries or central banks; and (3) mutual fund certifi- cates, provided that they are redeemable on demand and issued by entities domiciled in one of the aforementioned countries. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limit is 5%. The limit is 5%. The limit is 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 POLAND Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies are obliged to comply with general legal guidelines, and their assets must be in the same currency as that specified in the liabilities arising from the insurance agreements. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January L The prohibition on imports of passenger cars and other passenger vehicles older than 10 years; trucks, vans, other utility cars, and passenger vehicles older than 3 years for transportation of more than 10 persons; cars with two-cycle engines; and combine harvest- ers was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Portugal is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Portuguese escudo remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28,2002, both the Portuguese escudo and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Portugal participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conversion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conversion rate between the euro and the Portuguese escudo was set at Esc 200.482 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Operations in foreign exchange are permitted through the banking system. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Yes. In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions and EU regulations, certain restric- tions have been imposed on payments and transfers with respect to Iraq; certain residents of Myanmar; individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism; and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payments and transfers involving specific members of the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are restricted. Special caution is rec- ommended in transactions with countries with counterparties located in countries or territo- ries not cooperating in efforts to prevent money laundering. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding €12,470 (prior to January 1, 2002, Esc 2.5 million). 761 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 PORTUGAL Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of €12,470 (prior to January 1, 2002, Esc 2.5 million) must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, sanctions are imposed on specific transactions involving diamonds (Liberia, Sierra Leone, and the UNITA movement in Angola), armaments (Iraq; Liberia; the Taliban; the UNITA movement in Angola; and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism), and oil (Iraq and the UNITA movement in Angola). Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the prevention of com- mercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be required. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Products of dual use may require a certificate. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. Generally, licenses are valid for six months for customs clearance purposes. For products under EU surveillance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical purposes and are granted automatically in four or five days. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 763 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an export certificate may be required. Products of dual use may require a certificate. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents If the purchase is made locally through a public takeover bid, it is subject to a preliminary announcement to, as well as registration with, the Portuguese Stock Market Committee (CMVM). If the sale occurs in Portugal through a public offer, prior CMVM registration is required. If the offeror is a nonresident having a head office in a non-EU country, the prior issue of a prospectus in Portugal or any other EU country is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents In addition to the provisions of Article 148—with the necessary adaptations—the following regulations apply: (1) When instruments are to be listed simultaneously on a stock exchange located or operat- ing in Portugal and on one located or operating in another European country, the provisions of Article 145 need to be observed, mutatis mutandis. (2) In order for instruments to be listed in Portugal, a prospectus that has been approved by a competent authority of another EU member country needs to be submitted to the CMVM three months prior to the public offering in accordance with Article 147. The approval authority for the prospectus for a public offering that is to be made simultaneously in EU member countries for securities of the same class rests in the member country in which the issuer has its headquarters. If, however, the country within which the issuer resides does not have this authority, the issuer must select another member country that has this authority and notify the CMVM of its choice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 764 PORTUGAL Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchases that are made locally through a public takeover bid must be reported to and reg- istered with the CMVM. The regulations governing sales or issue abroad by residents of shares or other securities also apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The marketing of noncoordinated undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) must be authorized by the MOF. Coordinated UCITS must be reported to the CMVM. No. No. Investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign investments must be registered within 30 days after the operation has taken place. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Nondiscriminatory prudential rules apply to (1) the establishment of branches abroad, for which prior notification to and permission from the Banco de Portugal (BDP)—in the case of EEA member countries—or BDP authorization—in other cases—is required; (2) the establishment of subsidiaries abroad, for which prior notification to the BDP is required; (3) the acquisition of qualifying holdings in foreign banks or other credit institutions, for which BDP approval is required; and (4) limits on other investments (e.g., capital holdings in a company may not exceed 15% of a bank's own funds and the total amount of qualify- ing holdings may not exceed 60% of a bank's own funds —in both cases, these limits are not applied to shareholdings in companies included in the supervision on a consolidated basis to which the shareholding bank is subject). In banks by nonresidents Nondiscriminatory prudential rules apply to the acquisition of qualifying holdings. Open foreign exchange position limits The prudential minimum own-funds requirements are applied on a nondiscriminatory basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Other controls imposed by securities laws There are limits on these acquisitions, and the acquisition of some securities is prohibited. Regulations pertaining to financial markets are issued by the MOF and the CMVM. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 765 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Portuguese escudo could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March L The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Qatar is the Qatar riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The official exchange rate for the Qatar riyal is pegged to the dollar at QR 3.64 per $1. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in dollars are based on the Qatar Cen- tral Bank's (QCB's) buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0085 is applied to ex- change transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the dollar. No. No. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control All settlements with Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are all financial transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. No other prescription of currency requirements is in force. No. The QCB is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. International security restrictions Financial transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade On March 19, 2002, the Qatari authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. No. For trading purposes, the buying and selling of gold and precious metals require import licenses and are subject to customs duty. Transactions involving Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Resident Accounts 766 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 767 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports from Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports are generally subject to a customs tariff of 4%, which is the minimum rate applied by members of the GCC. The customs tariff on steel is 20%, and on alcohol and tobacco, 100%. Imports from GCC member countries are exempt from tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 768 QATAR Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. No. No. No. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, and agriculture. The foreign direct investment law of October 2000 allows up to 100% foreign ownership in the agriculture, industry, health, and tourism sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Real estate ownership is restricted to GCC nationals. Purchase locally by nonresidents Non-GCC nationals are not allowed to own real estate. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 19. The Qatari authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1998. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian leu. The transferable ruble continues to be used as a unit of account for outstanding balances of the former CMEA. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the leu is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania (NBR) intervenes in the exchange market to prevent unwar- ranted appreciations of the leu. This policy is aimed at preserving external viability. Less- frequent NBR interventions in the exchange market since the middle of 2001 have allowed a wider daily exchange rate fluctuation (this policy is intended to increase the flexibility of the exchange rate). As a result, effective June 30,2001, the exchange rate of Romania was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Dealings in the foreign exchange market are subject to NBR authorization. All commer- cial banks are authorized to participate in the interbank foreign exchange market. Juridi- cal persons other than authorized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. Natural persons may purchase or sell foreign currency either through authorized banks or through foreign exchange offices. Effective November 11, 2001, the NBR quotes rates for 18 currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the dollar in the countries concerned, and the rates for 11 currencies of the euro area based on the rates of these currencies against the euro (prior to that date, rates were quoted for 15 currencies—the Czech koruna, Hungarian florint, and Polish zloty were added to the list). Foreign exchange offices conduct transactions with banknotes of all of the above currencies and accept traveler's checks and cards denominated in these currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The forward market is not yet developed. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments arrangements are made only in convertible currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those arrangements. There are arrangements with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and some former CMEA members, aimed at liquidating the balance of the CMEA accounts. Effective Octo- ber 4, 2001, arrangements with China and Pakistan were terminated. There are arrangements with Albania, Algeria, Costa Rica, Egypt, Greece, India, and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Regional arrangements Romania is a member of the CEFTA and has free trade agreements with the EFTA countries, Turkey, and Moldova. Romania is an associated member of the EU. 769 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 770 ROMANIA Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are clearing arrangements with Bangladesh and a few countries of the former CMEA, but they are used only to settle previous balances. The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange transac- tions and authorizes certain capital transfers, while current payments and other capital transfers are not restricted. On April 10, 2002, the NBR notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The NBR has sole authority to purchase or to sell gold in any manner. It may grant permission to certain juridical persons for such purposes. Controls on external trade There are no actual authorizations for conducting external trade. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts for the export and import of currency exceeding those detailed below have to be declared at customs and deposited against a receipt. On a future trip to Romania within three years, those amounts may be used; after three years, they are automatically passed to the state budget. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Natural persons may take out lei 500,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may take out foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may bring into Romania up to lei 500,000 a person a trip. Natural persons may bring into Romania up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) juridical persons who are registered in Romania (i.e., public institutions, embassies, consulates, and other Romanian representatives abroad); (2) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, clubs, leagues, and any other profit or nonprofit juridical persons authorized to carry on activities within the Romanian territory; (3) foreign branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies; (4) Romanian citizens; (5) natural persons with foreign citizenship; and (6) stateless per- sons living in Romania. Yes. Except for some categories specified in regulations, resident persons need NBR approval to hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Full convertibility is permitted for current account transactions. Convertibility for capital account transactions is limited and requires prior approval of the NBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency ROMANIA 771 Nonresident Accounts Yes. The accounts in domestic currency consist of account types A, B, and deposit accounts: (1) current accounts of type A are for depositing proceeds from current transactions; sales and purchases of foreign currency against lei, where the underlying transaction is of a cur- rent nature; transfers from B accounts; and interest earned on A and B accounts; (2) current accounts of type B are for capital transactions, i.e., sales and purchases of foreign exchange against lei, where the underlying transaction is of a capital nature; proceeds from capital transactions; and transfers to/from A accounts; and (3) deposit accounts with the prior au- thorization of the NBR. Full convertibility is permitted for current account transactions stipulated by regulations (profits, dividends, interest, and other income sources resulting from legal transactions). Full convertibility is also permitted for most capital transactions of nonresidents in Roma- nia (direct and real estate investments as well as proceeds from their liquidation and capital investments), which are allowed freely by law. Convertibility is also assured for all other capital transactions that are subject to authorization of the NBR. The conversion into for- eign currencies may be carried out, provided that nonresidents submit to commercial banks the justifying documents including the authorization of the NBR in the case of deposit accounts. For the balances of type A accounts, convertibility is permitted within 180 days starting from the date of encashment. For the balances of type B and deposit accounts, convertibility is permitted at any time. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Documentation is required for all import payments. Imports, in general, are not subject to licensing. The government may restrict imports for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the WTO. Yes. There is a commission of 0.5% for exports other than those of the EU, EFTA, CEFTA, Moldova, and Turkey. Tariff rates range between 3% and 144%, averaging about 19% for all goods on a trade- weighted basis. On January 1, 2001, the import surcharge of 2% was eliminated. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds In accordance with the provisions of the Government Ordinance no. 18/1994, the subse- quent Law no. 12/1995, and the Ordinance no. 15/1996, repatriation must be effected: (1) within 90 calendar days after the goods cross the border, in the case of receipts against sight documents; and (2) within 15 calendar days from the date of delivery, execution, or rendering that appears in the contract, in the case of advance payments. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 Export licenses Export taxes ROMANIA There are licenses required for statistical purposes on certain new materials and minimally processed goods. There is a commission of 0.5% for exports outside the EU, EFT A, CEFTA, Moldova, and Turkey. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transactions; however, payments and transfers must be documented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Repatriation must be effected within (1) 90 days after completing the work or rendering the services; (2) 5 days from the due date that appears in the contract; or (3) 15 days after completing the work or rendering the services in the case of advance payments. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales by nonresidents may be effected freely, but issues require NBR authorization and approval from the National Commission for Securities (NCS). Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales by nonresidents may be effected freely, but issues require NBR authorization and NCS approval. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require NBR authorization. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization, except for banks. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization, except for the sale of money market securities by banks. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales by nonresidents may be effected freely, but issues require NBR authorization and NCS approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 773 Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require NBR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Derivatives may be purchased freely on capital markets, but the purchase of derivatives on money markets is subject to NBR authorization. Derivatives may be sold freely by nonresidents on capital markets, but issues require NBR authorization and NCS approval. Transactions involving the sale or issue of derivatives on money markets require NBR authorization. Transactions involving instruments traded on capital and money markets require NBR authorization. Effective December 3, 2001, residents are permitted to issue derivatives in foreign capital markets. Prior to that date, NBR authorization was required. Effective December 3, 2001, nonresidents are permitted to grant medium- and long-term credits related to international commercial transactions to residents. Previously, commercial credits with a maturity of more than one year required NBR authorization on the basis of appropriate documentation. These transactions require NBR authorization, except for short-term financial credits contracted by banks. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits with a short-term maturity require NBR authorization. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Effective December 3, 2001, nonresidents are permitted to grant guarantees to residents. Previously, only transactions related to commercial credits of less than a one-year maturity or those extended by a commercial bank were free. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are free only if they are not related to financial credits. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require approval. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions require approval. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans These transactions require NBR authorization. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Effective December 3, 2001, transfers related to short-term loans granted by nonresidents to residents were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 774 ROMANIA Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Effective December 3, 2001, these transactions may be effected freely. Prior to that date, they required NBR authorization. Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective December 3, 2001, controls on these transfers were eliminated. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transactions require NBR authorization only for residents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Effective December 3, 2001, transactions in maturities longer than one year do not require NBR authorization. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Ratios on reserves are different for each currency, Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits n.r. Yes. The authorization of the NBR is required for investments by residents or nonresidents of more than 5% in a bank's equity. Effective September 25, 2001, the daily maximum foreign exchange limit for each currency is 10% of a bank's own funds, and the aggregate foreign exchange limit is 20% of a bank's own funds. Previously, the open foreign exchange position limit was 10% of a bank's own funds. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts June 30. The exchange rate of Romania was reclassified to the category crawling band from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. November 11. The NBR began to quote rates for the Czech koruna, Hungarian florint, and Polish zloty. October 4. Bilateral payments arrangements with China and Pakistan were terminated. Imports and import payments January 1. The import surcharge of 2% was eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments December 3. Transactions involving sales or issues abroad by residents of capital market securities and collective investment securities no longer required NBR authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments December 3. Residents no longer required NBR authorization to issue derivatives in foreign capital markets. Controls on credit operations December 3. Nonresidents were permitted to grant to residents medium- and long-term credits related to international commercial transactions. December 3. Nonresidents were permitted to grant guarantees to residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 775 Controls on real estate transactions December 3. Purchases of real estate abroad by residents no longer required NBR authorization. Controls on personal capital movements December 3. Transfers of assets abroad by emigrants were liberalized. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions December 3. Transactions involving gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies made by residents to nonresidents became free. Previously, they required NBR authorization. December 3. Transfers related to short-term loans granted by nonresidents to residents were liberalized. September 25. The daily maximum foreign exchange limit for each currency was 10% of a bank's own funds, and the aggregate foreign exchange limit was 20% of a bank's own funds (previously, the open foreign exchange position limit was 10% of a bank's own funds). December 3. Transactions in maturities longer than one year no longer required NBR authorization. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April JO. The NBR notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1,1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Russia is the Russian ruble. Exchange rate structure Multiple. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) announces daily an official exchange rate, based on the interbank market exchange rates. This rate is used for accounting and taxation purposes, and in operations with the MOF. The dollar is the intervention currency of the CBR. The CBR operates in both the interbank currency exchanges and the over-the-counter interbank market to maintain a stable ruble exchange rate. There is a 1% tax on purchases of foreign currencies and foreign payment instruments. No. Forward transactions are conducted by authorized banks. Trading in futures contracts is conducted on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) and the St. Petersburg Currency Exchange. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Yes. Yes. Yes. Settlements between residents in foreign exchange are not allowed except for a few transac- tions that have been permitted by the CBR and for mandatory payments to the state, as specified in legislation. There are 24 arrangements. Agreements exist with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The CBR is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange positions. 776 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 777 International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Certain commercial and financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Yes. Residents require a license from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MEDT) to export gold. Banks require a general banking license and a license to conduct transactions in precious metals to export gold. Exports and imports of ruble banknotes by residents and nonresidents are subject to CBR controls in accordance with policies established jointly with the MOF and the State Cus- toms Committee (SCC). Foreign banknotes may be exported and imported by residents and nonresidents in accordance with procedures established by the CBR jointly with the SCC. Resident and nonresident natural persons may export ruble banknotes up to the equivalent of 500 times the minimum wage established by the government. The CBR may export ruble banknotes without limit; central banks of other countries may export ruble banknotes with CBR authorization. Authorized banks may export ruble banknotes to their branches abroad, while authorized banks may export ruble banknotes to nonresident banks from correspondent accounts held by the nonresident bank at the authorized bank. Exports of ruble banknotes by other juridi- cal persons are prohibited. Resident natural persons may export foreign currency banknotes up to the equivalent of $1,500. Exports between $1,500 and $10,000 require documentary evidence of the source of the funds (such as a certificate from an authorized bank and a customs declaration show- ing that the banknotes were imported). Amounts exceeding $10,000 may be exported only with CBR authorization; this limit does not include foreign exchange funds being exported for business travel expenses. Other resident natural persons require CBR authorization to export foreign currency banknotes. Nonresident natural persons may export foreign exchange up to the amount that was imported or transferred into Russia previously. Authorized banks possessing a CBR general license may export foreign currency banknotes without restriction. Resident and nonresident natural persons may import ruble banknotes up to 500 times the minimum wage. Military personnel and Russian workers at military bases abroad may im- port ruble banknotes without limit. Refugees entering Russia may import ruble banknotes, but only with documentary evidence of the source of the funds that has been certified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the consular services in the country concerned. The CBR may import ruble banknotes without limits, as may other central banks, subject to CBR authorization. Authorized banks may import ruble banknotes from nonresident banks that have corre- spondent accounts (and when an agreement is in place) to be credited to the nonresident bank's correspondent account. Authorized banks may import ruble banknotes from their branches abroad. Imports of ruble banknotes by other juridical persons are prohibited. Foreign currency There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes that nonresident and resident natu- ral persons may bring into the country, provided the customs regulations are observed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• 778 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Residents may open foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Funds held in these accounts may be used to settle current transactions with nonresidents and other capital transactions that are permitted by the CBR. Residents may open two types of foreign exchange accounts: transit accounts, in which the fu ll amount of surrendered foreign exchange receipts is credited; and current accounts, to which the funds retained by enterprises are transferred after surrender of the export proceeds. Russian financial institutions may maintain correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with CBR licensing to conduct banking operations with funds in rubles and in foreign ex- change if the license permits establishment of correspondent relations with foreign banks. Resident juridical persons (other than lending institutions) and representative offices and branches of Russian finance institutions abroad may open accounts abroad with authoriza- tion from the CBR. Resident juridical persons may —without CBR permission—open ac- counts for limited operations (certain kinds of settlements under international construction contracts) in non-freely convertible foreign currencies specified by the CBR by notifying the tax authorities on the opening of, and the flow of funds to, these accounts. Resident natural persons may open accounts abroad during their stay outside Russia. Upon returning to Russia, residents are required to close any accounts held at foreign banks and transfer (or bring in as foreign banknotes, in accordance with customs regulations) the balance of the funds to Russia. Effective September 29, 2001, natural persons may open foreign exchange accounts in OECD or FATF member countries with notification to the tax authorities. These accounts may be used for purposes that are unrelated to entrepreneurial activities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Effective July 4, 2001, nonresident juridical persons may open "S" accounts, of which there are four types: (1) conversion accounts, which are convertible into foreign exchange; (2) investment accounts, which may not be converted into foreign exchange but may be used to purchase domestic currency securities and make contributions to authorized capital of residents; (3) project accounts, for domestic investments, which require CBR permission and which may not be converted into foreign exchange; and (4) transit accounts, for trans- fer of funds from S (investment) accounts to S (conversion) accounts, in which case the minimum time funds must remain in a transit account is set by the CBR and is currently 365 days. Effective March 8, 2001, nonresident juridical persons may open the following ruble ac- counts: "K" accounts, from which funds may be converted into foreign exchange; and "N" accounts, from which funds may be converted into foreign exchange not less than 365 days after presentation of a currency purchase order to an authorized bank. Nonresident natural persons may open "F" accounts, which may be converted into foreign exchange. F, K, and N accounts may be opened only at authorized banks. S accounts may be opened only at authorized banks that have permits to maintain these accounts. Prior to March 8, 2001, nonresidents were allowed to maintain five types of ruble accounts: (1) "T" accounts, which were credited with proceeds from current international transactions (including proceeds from sales of goods and services to residents of Russia and interest ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 779 earnings on the account itself), and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by their representative offices in Russia; (2) correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime applicable to T accounts; (3) "I" accounts, which were used for investment activities (including privatization operations); (4) nonresident accounts for natural persons; and (5) "S" accounts for transactions involving government securities. The transfer abroad of balances in T accounts and correspondent ruble accounts accumulated after June 1, 1996, was not restricted. The use of balances accumulated up to May 31, 1996, was limited to domestic transactions. I accounts could be used for a wide range of invest- ment activities, including profit and dividend transfers. Balances maintained in I accounts could be transferred abroad without restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresi- dent natural and juridical persons were able to purchase foreign exchange only with ruble balances held in I accounts. Only funds in F, K, N, and S (conversion) accounts may be converted. Conversion and repatriation of funds from N accounts are permitted after 365 days. Prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements The CBR enforces procedures whereby residents may make advance payments in excess of 90 days for imports of goods, services, and intellectual property. These transactions cur- rently require CBR authorization. The advance payment period for imports of food and consumer goods from Latvia may not exceed 180 days. Residents must lodge a deposit with an authorized bank when purchasing foreign exchange for the purpose of making advance payments for imports. This amount may be reduced by the amount of a letter of credit issued by an authorized bank; the guarantee of a nonresident bank; a contract to cover the risk of nonrepatriation in the case of a default of the nonresi- dent payor; a promissory note issued by a nonresident secured by a nonresident bank; or with a special authorization from the CBR. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Settlements may be made with LCs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Private imports of ethyl alcohol are prohibited. Licenses are required for imports of various alcoholic products, as well as dual-use items, military equipment, medicine, industrial waste, and ozone-depleting substances. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Most customs duties range from 5% to 16%, but 25-30% duties are levied on a few sensi- tive goods. The following imports are exempt from duties: insulin and some other pharma- ceuticals, printed materials, cotton and cotton wastes, some animal species, new diamonds, wheelchairs, works of art, collectibles, and antiques. Imports of goods on the approved list from developing countries (except those subject to excise duties) are subject to a customs duty that is 75% of the applicable rate. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be fully repatriated. Surrender requirements The surrender requirement is 50% (prior to August 10, 2001, 75%) and is applied to pro- ceeds from exports of goods, services, and intellectual property of residents, and must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 780 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes effected within seven days of the date the foreign exchange proceeds were credited to the exporter's S (transit) account at an authorized bank. Surrender is effected either at the uni- fied trading session of the MICEX or to the CBR through an authorized bank. Effective July 7, 2001, residents may contract settlements for exports of certain mechanical engineering products (provided that the repatriation period of the exchange proceeds from the sales does not exceed three years from the date of the border crossing); for construction and contracting work done by residents abroad (provided that the period of repatriation of the exchange proceeds does not exceed five years from the effective date of the work agreement); and for contributions and payments associated with insurance and reinsurance that are made during the term of the relevant agreement. The deferment of receipts from exports of energy, metals, and other raw materials to Latvia may not exceed 180 days. Settlements may be made with LCs. Export licensing is limited to goods on a list approved by the government, including mili- tary equipment and arms, precious metals and stones, rare animals and plant species, dual- use items, ethyl spirits and alcoholic products, and goods and services exported in accor- dance with international obligations. Licenses are issued by the MEDT in accordance with established procedures. Yes. Export taxes apply to 162 items, and the rate for most of them is 6.5%, with a maximum rate of 50% for nonferrous scrap. A number of goods are subject to specific duties, includ- ing crude oil and petroleum products. Certain goods are taxed by combined duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Residents may purchase foreign exchange to pay for imports of goods, services, and intel- lectual property exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 with the permission of authorized federal agencies, with the exception of the following transactions: advance payments not exceeding 90 days; settlements between a broker and a shipping agent; and settlements associated with insurance and reinsurance contributions and payments. Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Fifty percent of proceeds from invisibles connected with goods, services, and intellectual property are subject to the surrender requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents RUSSIAN FEDERATION 781 Only residents possessing CBR permits may carry out transactions with nonresidents in foreign exchange. All those involved in the acquisition of domestically issued securities by foreign investors and the acquisition of foreign-issued securities by Russian investors are required to notify the Federal Securities Commission (FKRTsB). Nonresidents may purchase from residents securities denominated in foreign exchange with foreign exchange. Authorized banks may conduct these transactions without restriction, but other residents are required to have CBR authorization. Nonresidents may acquire securities issued by residents with funds from K accounts with- out restrictions. The CBR establishes the list of securities (together with requirements) that may be acquired with funds from S accounts. This list currently includes shares of certain Russian nonfmancial enterprises and lending institutions. Initial placement or trading of securities issued by nonresidents on the domestic market is allowed after their prospectus is registered with the FKRTsB. These securities must be denominated in rubles. Nonresidents may sell securities denominated in rubles for rubles without restrictions (when the above requirements are met), as well as securities denominated in foreign ex- change for foreign exchange. Foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of securities are credited to foreign exchange accounts opened with authorized banks, and ruble receipts from sales of securities issued by residents are credited to K accounts. Resident juridical persons may purchase securities only with CBR authorization. Effective July 7, 2001, resident natural persons may purchase securities abroad in amounts not ex- ceeding the equivalent of $75,000 during a calendar year through accounts with authorized banks for the purpose of acquiring rights to foreign currency-denominated securities. These transactions do not require authorization from the CBR, but the tax authorities must be notified of the transfers of funds. Authorization from the FKRTsB is required to issue or sell domestic securities abroad. A CBR permit is required for sales of securities for foreign exchange by residents abroad and for transfers of proceeds from their domestic sale. Proceeds must be transferred to current foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks. Russia's sovereign domestic debt consists of government short term-zero coupon bonds (GKOs) and federal bonds (OFZs); government nonmarket bonds (OGNZs); government savings bonds; and domestic foreign exchange securities. Nonresidents may purchase from residents securities denominated in foreign exchange with foreign exchange. Authorized banks may conduct these operations without controls, but other residents are required to obtain CBR authorization. Nonresidents may purchase domestic securities with funds from K and N accounts without controls. The CBR establishes the list of securities (together with requirements) that may be acquired with funds from S accounts. This list currently includes federal loan bonds and domestic corporate bonds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares of other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares of other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issues and sales of domestic securities abroad require FKRTsB permission. Proceeds from sales must be credited to current foreign exchange accounts of residents with authorized banks. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 782 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Purchases of derivatives with foreign exchange are permitted, provided that residents have prior CBR authorization. The purchase of derivatives with rubles may be carried out freely through K and N accounts. Foreign exchange transactions by residents are allowed only with CBR authorization. For- eign exchange receipts of nonresidents may be transferred abroad freely. Ruble sales pro- ceeds must be credited to K and N accounts of nonresidents with authorized banks. Purchases are permitted, provided prior authorization from the CBR to transfer foreign exchange is granted. Sales are permitted with prior CBR authorization. The transfer of proceeds from the sales requires prior authorization from the CBR. Proceeds must be credited to current foreign exchange accounts. Credits connected with export and import operations with maturities exceeding 90 days may be extended only with CBR authorization, in accordance with government procedures, except in cases where different authorization procedures have been established. Export credits for certain mechanical engineering products may not exceed three years, and those for construction and contracting work performed by residents abroad may not exceed five years. Authorized banks may extend freely financial credits with maturities exceeding 180 days to nonresidents. Effective September 10, 2001, resident natural persons may also acquire and repay foreign exchange credits and loans that have been extended by nonresidents for terms exceeding 180 days, after notifying the CBR (previously, CBR authorization was required). Effective September 17, 2001, residents and nonresidents may acquire credits in foreign exchange on the basis of credit agreements with authorized banks and repay these credits to authorized banks. Effective July 5, 2001, investments by nonfinancial enterprises in CIS countries amounting up to the equivalent of $10 million require notification to the CBR. CBR authorization is required for all other transactions. A CBR permit is required for financial institutions to participate in the capital of financial institutions abroad. Investments undertaken through joint ventures or through outright ownership are not re- stricted, except in the exploration of natural resources, where a special license is required, and in landownership, where it is prohibited. Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. Foreign direct investments are subject to the same rules and benefit from the same privileges with regard to property ownership and economic activities as those applicable to residents. Foreign direct invest- ments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases, in accordance with legislation; in such cases, the investor is entitled to compensation. There are provisions protecting foreign investments, including a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign in- vestments for a three-year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect them and a provision that any restrictions on activities of foreign investors may be introduced only by Russian laws or by presidential decrees. Proceeds from liquidation of direct investments may be credited freely to K accounts of nonresidents with an authorized bank. Balances may be converted into foreign exchange and transferred abroad without restrictions. Transfers of foreign exchange resources by residents to nonresidents upon liquidation of direct investments require CBR authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Prior authorization from the CBR is required for all real estate transactions. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBR authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents RUSSIAN FEDERATION 783 CBR authorization is required for nonresidents to sell real estate to resident juridical persons. Credits with maturities exceeding 180 days may be extended only with prior CBR authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Sanctions are in place against banks violating reporting requirements on foreign exchange transactions. The regulation prohibits these banks from access to the foreign currency mar- ket for transactions on their own account and for their clients. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized banks may open correspondent accounts with banks abroad pursuant to the terms specified in the banking license issued by the CBR. The opening of other types of accounts with banks abroad requires prior authorization from the CBR. Authorized banks may extend credits to nonresidents without controls. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Authorized banks may purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange without controls. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Lending institutions are required to maintain with the CBR a 10% deposit against for- eign exchange deposits of resident juridical and natural persons. Accounts of interbank obligations —including accounts of borrowings by lending institutions on the interbank credit market, loans (deposits), and correspondent accounts of correspondent lending institutions and nonresident banks (loro accounts)—are not included in the calculation of required reserves. Lending institutions are required to maintain deposits of 7% against ruble deposits of resi- dent juridical and natural persons. The required reserve balance is reduced by the amount of ruble cash balances these institutions maintain in their cash department. Yes. The CBR does not consider requests from (1) credit institutions to open branches in Latvia, (2) Latvian banks and affiliates to start operations in Russia, or (3) residents of Latvia to participate in existing credit institutions. In addition, it does not allow Russian credit insti- tutions to participate in the statutory capital of subsidiaries in Latvia. Direct investments require prior authorization of the CBR. Participation of foreign capital in the domestic banking system is subject to a quota that is set by law. Within the limits of this quota, payments to the authorized capital of resident lending institutions by nonresidents may be made without restriction. The open foreign exchange position of commercial banks is 20% of capital for all curren- cies and 10% of capital for any individual currency. These limits are calculated on a stock and transaction date basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors Investment by institutional investors in securities denominated in foreign exchange requires prior CBR authorization. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Resident insurance companies may invest up to 20% abroad. Resident insurance companies must invest at least 80% locally. The federal law governing the securities market prohibits discriminatory treatment of non- resident purchases of securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 784 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Changes During 2001 September 29. Notification to the tax authorities was required for natural persons to open foreign exchange accounts in OECD or FATF member countries, which may be used for purposes unrelated to entrepreneurial activities. March 8. Nonresident juridical persons were allowed to open the following ruble accounts: "K" accounts, from which funds may be converted into foreign exchange; and "N" ac- counts, from which funds may be converted into foreign exchange not less than 365 days after presentation of a currency purchase order to an authorized bank. Also, nonresident natural persons were allowed to open "F" accounts, which may be converted into foreign exchange. July 4. Nonresident juridical persons were allowed to open "S" accounts, of which there are four types: (1) conversion accounts, which are convertible into foreign exchange; (2) in- vestment accounts, which may not be converted into foreign exchange but may be used to purchase domestic currency securities and make contributions to authorized capital of resi- dents; (3) project accounts, for domestic investments, which require CBR permission and which may not be converted into foreign exchange; and (4) transit accounts, for transfer of funds from S (investment) accounts to S (conversion) accounts, in which case the minimum time funds must remain in a transit account is set by the CBR and is currently 365 days. S accounts may be opened only at authorized banks that have permits to maintain these accounts. July 7. Federal Law No. 72-FZ came into effect, allowing residents to contract (1) settle- ments for exports of certain mechanical engineering products provided that the repatriation period of the exchange proceeds from sales of these goods does not exceed three years from the date the shipment leaves Russia; (2) settlements for construction and contracting work done by residents outside the Russian Federation, provided that the period of repatriation of exchange proceeds does not exceed five years from the effective date of the work; and (3) settlements associated with insurance and reinsurance contributions and payments made during the term of the relevant agreement. August 10. Federal Law No. 130-FZ came into effect, reducing the surrender requirement for the foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods, services, and intellectual property of residents to 50% from 75%. July 7. Federal Law No. 72-FZ came into effect, authorizing resident natural persons to make transfers to and from abroad through accounts with authorized banks in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 in a calendar year for the purpose of purchasing securities denominated in foreign exchange, provided that the tax authorities are notified of such transfer. September 10. CBR Directive No. 1030-U came into effect, establishing a notification pro- cedure for natural resident persons with regard to the acquisition and repayment of foreign exchange credits and loans that have been extended by nonresidents for terms exceeding 180 days. September 17. CBR Statute No. 152-P came into effect. This law extends the list of trans- actions that may be carried out without authorization from the CBR, authorizes the acqui- sition of credits in foreign exchange by residents and nonresidents for a term exceeding 180 days on the basis of credit agreements with authorized banks, and allows repayment of these credits to authorized banks. July 5. CBR Statute No. 142-P came into effect, allowing resident juridical persons in CIS countries to undertake direct investments up to the equivalent of $10 million, with notifica- tion to the CBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1998. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined on the foreign exchange market, with the authorities intervening to influence the rate. Effective February 1, 2001, a foreign ex- change auction system was introduced by the National Bank of Rwanda (NBR). Banks may apply a variable commission to exchange operations. The NBR does not announce official exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market A forward exchange market has been created, but it is not yet operational. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Banknotes and coins issued by the NBR are the only legal tender, but payments with for- eign banknotes are permitted. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The NBR maintains agreements with the central banks of the CEPGL countries. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through the COMESA clearinghouse, which is currently being restructured. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMESA are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible currencies. Rwanda is also a member of RIFF. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists with Uganda, but it is not operational. Administration of control Foreign exchange control authority is vested in the NBR, which has delegated authority to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade is restricted to dealers who are approved by the relevant ministry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require a declaration. 785 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 786 RWANDA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports A declaration is required for exports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Only foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer may be exported freely. Foreign exchange declared to customs on entry into the country may be reexported upon the presentation of the declaration documents. Domestic currency Declaration is required for the import of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency withdrawals exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 a year require supporting documentation. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts may be held, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Supporting documentation is required for deposits of foreign currency by residents and nonresidents, and deposits from nonresidents' or residents' domestic and/or foreign cur- rency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports are generally paid for after delivery. However, authorized banks may make advance payments upon the presentation of supporting documentation showing that such payment is needed. They may also sell up to the equivalent of $50,000 in foreign exchange to importers who request this for imports of goods and services, with sup- porting documents to be presented later; such transactions must be settled by check or bank transfer. Imports with an f.o.b. value of the equivalent of $2,500 or more are subject to a bank import declaration. These declarations must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice stating the f.o.b. value of the merchandise. Imports with an f.o.b. value of the equivalent of $5,000 or more ($3,000 for fresh food- stuffs and Pharmaceuticals) and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an international agency with regard to the quality, quantity, price, and customs tariff of the goods before they are shipped to Rwanda, unless otherwise provided by the NBR. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs RWANDA 787 All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfec- tants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to the approval of the relevant pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. Yes. In addition to customs duty, a file-processing charge—equal to 0.9% of the f.o.b. value of imported general merchandise (the minimum charge being RF 60,000) and 0.7% of the f.o.b. value for petroleum products—is levied when imports are declared, to cover costs incurred by the inspection agency. Maximum import tariffs are 25%, and the intermediate rates are 15%. Most capital goods remain subject to a zero tariff. Effective January 1, 2002, tariffs for imports from COMES A members were reduced by 80%. In accordance with Law 52-12-2001, this reduction will be increased to 90% on January 1, 2003, and to 100% on January 1, 2004. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within seven business days from the date of payment and may be held in their entirety in foreign exchange accounts maintained by the exporter at authorized banks. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports, except trade samples and personal and household effects of travelers, are subject to prior declaration to the authorized banks. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments are permitted on loans and for interest payments under contracts submitted to the NBR with proof that the funds were initially received locally either in cash or in kind. Approval by an authorized bank is required for payments of profits and dividends and is subject to proof that taxes for the current fiscal year have been provisioned and to a deci- sion by the board of directors of the company concerned approving the payments. Official travel requires a travel authorization by the government or by an authorized agency. Daily allowances are granted for such travel. Businessmen may purchase up to the equivalent of $10,000 in payment instruments for each trip, but the number of business trips is not restricted. A maximum allowance of $4,000 a trip is granted for tourism. Personal payments There are no controls on the payment of pensions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 788 Quantitative limits RWANDA For medical expenses, unless waived by the NBR, residents may purchase up to the equiva- lent of $20,000 with supporting documents; prior authorization by the NBR is required for transfers of $20,000 or more. Unless waived by the NBR, purchases of foreign exchange for educational expenses are authorized within a limit of the equivalent of $25,000 a year a student on presentation of supporting documents. Authorized banks may freely approve requests for foreign exchange to cover expenses for a resident's family members living abroad for up to $1,000 a resident a year and to sell freely up to $10,000 a person to resi- dent nationals taking up residence abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Net salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract and the employee's share of social security contributions, may be transferred abroad. The net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, may also be transferred abroad after payment of taxes. The employee is liable for income tax and social security contributions. Yes. Prior authorization from the NBR is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 a year. Transfers of airline earnings are allowed, provided authorized banks ensure that landing and handling taxes have been paid and the amounts of transfers represent only the net amounts of all local expenditures. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds may be sold in the domestic foreign exchange market or may be held in foreign exchange accounts with banks located in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Presently, only the money market is operational. On capital market securities These transactions are governed by the pertinent business law provisions. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may participate in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale proceeds must be repatriated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 789 Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment All credit transactions, including those related to guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities, are subject to NBR approval. Outward direct investment NBR approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Repatriation of investments by nonresidents is governed by the investment code and must be registered by authorized banks. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Proof of entry of the funds into Rwanda is required at the time of payment. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets NBR approval is required. Transfer abroad by emigrants NBR approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed under certain conditions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed under certain conditions. Open foreign exchange position limits A limit of 20% of a bank's capital and reserves is applied. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangement February 1. The NBR introduced a foreign exchange auction system. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 1. Tariffs for imports from COMESA members were reduced by 80%. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. Kitts and Nevis is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted U.S. dollar accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the MOF is required to operate other foreign currency accounts. Held domestically Approval required Yes. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be debited freely. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Permission is normally granted only to major exporters. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. n.a. 790 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 791 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts is normally granted only to foreign nationals whose primary residence is not in St. Kitts and Nevis. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import payments exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports payable in foreign currency are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from CARICOM member countries. Open general licenses Most goods are imported under OGLs. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. Kitts and Nevis applies the GET of the CARICOM. On January 1, 2001, the third phase of the CARICOM GET came into effect, and the maximum external tariff was reduced to 25% from 30%. Also on this date, the customs surcharge levied on all imports was raised to 5% from 3%. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. However, the regulations governing export licenses are not formally enforced. Export duties are levied on a few products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Prior approval of the MOF is required for all transactions exceeding EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 792 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profits and dividends may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Individuals are permitted to purchase up to EC$250,000 without exchange control approval. All outward capital transfers exceeding this amount require exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 793 On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents An Alien's Land Holding license is required for purchases of equity shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The seller of the instruments must be licensed under the Banking Act, and transfers abroad in excess of EC$250,000 require approval from the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits At present, there is no market in derivatives and other instruments. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% Alien's Loan Levy is required for these transactions. To residents from nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Investments in equity require an Alien's Land Holding license. The remittance of proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. Transfer of proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requires MOF approval. Purchasing real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) MOF approval and payment of a 2.5% Alien's Loan Levy are required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Lending locally in foreign exchange MOF approval is required, which is granted only in the case of projects generating foreign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of locally issued securities denominated in for- eign currencies requires MOF approval. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. No. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January L The third phase of the CARICOM GET came into effect, reducing the maximum external tariff to 25% from 30%. January L The customs surcharge levied on all imports was raised to 5% from 3%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30,1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Settlements must be made either in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in U.S. dollars. All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. St. Lucia is a member of the CARICOM. The MOF is responsible for policy decisions related to exchange control, and its banking section is responsible for its administration. Commercial banks have been delegated the authority to approve payments and transfers under EC$250,000; in the case of imports with proper customs documentation, banks may approve transactions for any amount. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. 795 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts ST. LUCIA Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. Yes. Advance payment requirements Advance payments exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of a customs certificate of entry. Certain agricultural and manufactured products require individual licenses. There are three types of licenses: (1) goods originating outside the CARICOM and the OECS; (2) goods from these areas; and (3) goods imported directly from non-OECS countries. Manufactured goods originating in the CARICOM and the OECS are exempt from import duties. All imported goods are subject to a consumption tax and a service charge of 4%, except for fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.2%. Live animals, eggs, fish, meat, milk, fertil- izers, and most agricultural and manufacturing machinery are exempt from import duties. For non-CARICOM imports, the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET applies at a maxi- mum rate of 20%. State import monopoly The importation of rice, flour, and sugar in bulk form is a state monopoly. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export licensing is required for certain primary products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 797 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is applied to reexports of petroleum. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. With the approval of the MOF, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue and the National Insurance Scheme that liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the MOF reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements There is no repatriation requirement on proceeds of up to EC$250,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 ST. LUCIA Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Outward transfers exceeding EC$250,000 require exchange control approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require approval from the MOF. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all categories of credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits require the approval of the MOF. Applications for nonresident loans are sub- mitted by the authorized dealer (or other financial intermediary) to the MOF on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Approval of the MOF is required, except for loans to nonresident St. Lucians. Applications are submitted by authorized dealers on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is not required for nonresident St. Lucians. Sale locally by nonresidents Amounts exceeding EC$250,000 require approval for repatriation of estate proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 799 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is restricted to Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchase is restricted to securities denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their statutory deposits in government securities of the Commonwealth of Caribbean Nations. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws For every U.S. dollar liability, there must be an equivalent U.S. dollar asset. Funds raised from the issue of securities must be invested locally. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM may be made in any currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a member of the CARICOM. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade n.a. No. Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for industrial purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. n.a. Resident Accounts 800 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 801 Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF and credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Prior permission of the MOF is required to credit remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments to a foreign currency account by residents. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization from the MOF. The oper- ating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the MOF. External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Credits and debits to these accounts are subject to the regulations governing foreign exchange accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence and, where required, a license. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most goods may be imported freely. Imports of some goods that compete with typical ex- ports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. In accordance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET, the import tariff rates range from zero to 20%. In addition, imports are subject to a consumption tax ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the tariff-inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the con- sumption tax. A customs service charge of 4% is imposed on the c.i.f. value of all imported goods, with certain exceptions. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses All export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of receipt. n.a. n.a. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Other payments exceeding EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Approval is granted routinely. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. The limits are the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, and EC$6,000 a year for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the MOF. Personal payments Information is not available on the transfer of funds for pensions, family maintenance, and alimony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits All outward capital transfers over EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Residents are normally not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 803 Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is permitted, subject to the discharge of liabilities related to the investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Samoa is the Samoa tala. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Samoa's main trading partners. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are permitted to make forward exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Samoa participates in PACER and PICTA. Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the CBS, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents require the CBS's approval. However, the ANZ Bank (Samoa) Ltd., the National Bank of Samoa, and the Pacific Commercial Bank—the only authorized banks—are empowered to approve certain payments without limits and others up to specified amounts. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to export SAT 2,000 as part of their travel allowance. Samoan residents are allowed to export the equivalent of SAT 7,000 in foreign currency. Nonresidents may export the amount of foreign currency they brought into the country. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, with the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency deposit accounts with one of the three commercial banks. 804 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 805 Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments. However, approval is required to open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No limits are imposed on imports under an open account. However, payment requires CBS approval. The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. The maximum import tariff is 20%. Rates on machinery and agricultural imports are generally levied at 10% or lower, while those on motor vehicles are at 20%. There are only four general rates of duty—zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, an import excise tax is applied to imports of alcohol, soft drinks, tobacco, petroleum, and passenger cars. Enterprises producing for export may receive fu ll or partial exemption from duties and excise taxes on inputs and capital equipment. There is a value-added goods and service tax. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, which must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Financing requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 SAMOA Documentation requirements Certificates validated by the CBS are required for exports in excess of SAT 250. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, re- quire the prior approval of the CBS, which is granted when applications are supported by documentary proof that capital transactions are not involved. The CBS's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Yes. Yes. Yes. A 15% withholding tax is levied on remittances of interest payments on overseas loans and of dividends at the source. Information is not available for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas are entitled to purchase from commercial banks a foreign currency allowance equivalent to SAT 700 a person a day, subject to a limit of SAT 7,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50% of the adult allowances. Larger amounts may be purchased with CBS approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Although no limit is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. There is no specific limit for costs to study abroad, but the amount requested must be supported by documentary evidence confirming that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institu- tion abroad and costs are in line with the prevailing costs in the country of study. Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatriated during the contract may be repatriated at the end of the contract. Quantitative limits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 807 Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test As regards subscriptions and membership fees, no specific limit exists, but amounts requested must be supported by documentary evidence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign exchange brought in. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Most capital transactions (inward and outward) require approval of the CBS. Local money markets are beginning to develop following the introduction of open market operations by the CBS. No capital market has yet developed in Samoa. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Controls on credit operations All credit operations require CBS approval. Commercial credits Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 SAMOA By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Investments require CBS approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Repatriation of investments requires CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings There are no restrictions for nonresidents, but residents require approval from the CBS. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBS approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the CBS. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA 809 Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the euro. Between January 1 and February 28, 2002, how- ever, both the Italian lira and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. The monetary agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equiva- lent in form to Italian coinage; these coins are legal tender in both countries. The San Mar- ino gold scudo is also issued, but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is generally not used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value, which is €30.99 per 1 scudo. An agreement between San Marino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) reached on Novem- ber 29, 2000, and entered into force on April 1, 2001, provides for San Marino to issue, as of January 1,2002, agreed amounts of euro coins equivalent in form to euro area coin- age; these coins will be legal tender in the euro area. It also envisages the possibility for San Marino to issue banknotes, provided that an agreement is reached with the EU. The current agreement does not affect San Marino's right to continue issuing gold scudi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Foreign exchange transactions are conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries on foreign accounts are made in convertible currencies or in euros. No. The Central Bank of San Marino (CBSM) may grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions (since August 1, 2000, four banks have been so author- ized). The Finance and Exchange Agreement with Italy allows Sammarinese banks to maintain accounts with financial institutions abroad. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlement effected through author- ized Italian and Sammarinese intermediaries. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions San Marino adopts the restrictions applied by the EU. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Laws establish that the CBSM is the sole agency entitled to carry out transactions in gold. The CBSM may authorize other banks or domestic companies to buy gold for production purposes, after ensuring the necessary controls. Currently, there is no gold trade in San Marino. 810 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 811 Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. To combat money laundering, transactions in cash or bearer securities in excess of €15,500 must be made through financial institutions. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of numbered accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of numbered accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade trans- actions. Imports from the EU are not subject to restrictions, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. Customs duties on imports from outside the EU are collected by EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied by San Marino on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian VAT, but the average effective rate is about 4% lower. Sales taxes levied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 SAN MARINO Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No licenses, other than the general business license, are required to engage in trade transactions. Exports to the EU are not subject to restrictions, while exports to third countries are governed by relevant EU regulations. Customs clearance formalities concerning the export of arms, works of art, and precursor and dual-use products must be carried out at the customs offices identified by the EU-San Marino Cooperation Committee. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No controls are applied on transfers. However, payments exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No controls are applied; however, proceeds exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are subject to authorization, while the issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature is not allowed. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment SAN MARINO 813 The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the Office of Banking Supervision (OBS). In addition, the average interest rates applied by the financial system are monitored and their threshold rates are determined in order to prevent usury. Yes. Yes. Investments require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases by domestic companies and nonresidents require approval from the Council of Twelve. Approval is granted on a case-by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Except for occasional transactions, this activity is not allowed. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the OBS. Lending locally in foreign exchange The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the OBS. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The purchase of securities of a participating nature exceeding 5% of a Sammarinese bank's capital must be declared to the OBS. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 SAN MARINO Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement April 1. The agreement between San Marino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) on the issue of euro coins by San Marino entered into force. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L Euro banknotes and coins were introduced. Both the euro and the Italian lira could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March L The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sao Tome* and Principe is the Sao Tome* and Principe dobra. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The official exchange rate is computed on a daily basis as a weighted average of the ex- change rates of the exchange bureaus, the commercial banks, and the parallel market. The intervention currency is the dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the dollar for the currencies concerned. The tax rates vary, according to the type of transaction involved. On import-related ex- change transactions, when an LC is opened a stamp duty of 0.25% of the import value and a postage levy of the equivalent of $2 are payable. On foreign checks for collection, commercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a minimum of $25 and a maximum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened and an additional fee of 0.125% is levied when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There are inoperative bilateral agreements with Angola and Cape Verde. An outstanding debit balance remains with Angola. Import and export licenses are freely granted by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes only. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 815 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 816 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely opened and credited or debited, including for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted and credited or debited, including for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits At the time of opening an LC, importers are required to lodge a deposit in the domestic currency equivalent —which is currently not remunerated—of up to 100% of the value of the LC (depending on the creditworthiness of the operator). Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All individuals and productive entities are permitted to engage in import activities. Import taxes and/or tariffs The customs tariffs consist of three rates (5%, 10%, and 120%), with no zero-rate band, and specific consumer taxes are levied on refined petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Yes. For statistical purposes, all exports require the completion of a registration form specifying the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. Banks charge a commission of 0.125% on the collection of export proceeds—with a mini- mum equivalent of $25 and a maximum of $300—when the LC is opened, and an addi- tional commission of 0.125% is collected when funds are received. They also charge a postage levy of Db 39,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 817 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Commercial banks charge a postage levy of the equivalent of $2 for clients (and $4 for others) on all transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. n.a. n.a. Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements The exchange rate of the riyal is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. The intervention currency is the dollar, to which a close relationship is maintained. The riyal rate against the dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA). The SAMA's middle rate, which has been stable since June 1986 at SRls 3.745 per $1, serves—together with the SAMA's buying and selling rates—as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125% above and below the SAMA's buying and selling rates, respectively. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with, and the use of the currency of, Israel are prohibited. No. Administration of control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions There are restrictions on transactions with Iraq. In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions have been im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Effective Septem- ber 28, 2001, assets suspected of being involved in financing terrorism are liable to freezing or confiscation, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 1373. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Residents may import and export gold in any form, except manufactured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12% customs duty. Gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 818 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 819 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Yes. Trade with Israel is prohibited. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates of 0-12%. Effective June 1, 2001, this range was reduced to 0-5%. For a few goods, the rate is 20% and for tobacco products, 100%. Imports from members of the GCC are exempt from duties, provided that at least 40% of value added is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51% of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SAUDI ARABIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is restricted to Saudi Arabian nationals, Saudi Arabian corporations and institutions, and citizens of the GCC. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock compa- nies is allowed for foreign investors through mutual funds managed by Saudi banks. There are no controls on portfolio investment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the Minister of Commerce to sell or issue securities within the Kingdom. There are no controls on the repatriation of proceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell nonresident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. For the sale of collective investment securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments In the case of collective investments securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required for riyal-denominated loans made through Saudi Arabian banks. Financial credits The SAMA's permission is required for all financial credit operations. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 821 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required. To residents from nonresidents Financial institutions that give guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same privileges as domestic capi- tal. The foreign investment law allows foreign investors to make direct investments in most of the country's economic sectors—with or without local participation—and provides for a 15% reduction in tax rates on foreign company profits exceeding SRls 100,000 (reducing the maximum to 30% from 45%). The tax rates are 20%, 25%, and 30% on various profit levels. Effective February 11, 2001, the Supreme Economic Council approved a list of economic sectors that remain off limits to foreign investors. These include projects related to oil ex- ploration, drilling, and production; production of military equipment and uniforms; produc- tion of explosives for civil purposes; printing and publishing; telecommunications; educa- tion; insurance; land and air transportation; real estate projects in Mecca and Medina; electricity transmission and distribution; fishery activities; distribution services, including wholesale and retail trade and commercial agencies; and a few other sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In principle, the purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Ara- bian corporations, Saudi Arabian institutions, and citizens of the GCC. However, under the investment law, foreign investors are allowed to own real estate as needed for their busi- ness, including housing for their staff. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase real estate for conducting real estate business in all cities, except for the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, provided that the investment in the real estate business is not less than SRls 30 million. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prize earnings are transferable; gambling is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Saudi banks require the SAMA's permission to lend to nonresidents, except for interbank transactions and commercial credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only domestic currency deposits are subject to the SAMA's reserve requirement. The SAMA's approval is required by Saudi Arabian banks before shares may be acquired in a company established outside the Kingdom. In banks by nonresidents Prior permission of the authorities is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 822 SAUDI ARABIA Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 28. In compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 1373, assets suspected of being involved in financing terrorism became liable to freezing or confiscation. Imports and import payments June L The range of the rate of customs duties to which most imports are subject was reduced to 0-5% from 0-12%. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment February 11. The Supreme Economic Council approved a list of economic sectors that remain off limits to foreign investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002) and a freely determined commission on purchases and sales of foreign currencies not directly related to transactions abroad. In addition, a commission of 0.25% (all of which must be surrendered to the treas- ury) is levied by banks on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover for payments related to im- ports and exports of goods and services. Forward cover may be provided only in the cur- rency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of the import or export payment stipulated in the commercial contract. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Senegal is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, set- tlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, French francs (through December 31, 2001), or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multinational clearing agreement exists in the context of the WAMA between the coun- tries of the WAEMU, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone. All payments related to current transactions between these countries may be effected under the clearing agreement. However, this excludes transactions speci- fied by the committee of governors of the central banks of ECOWAS member countries and payments related to subregional trade of finished products originating in countries whose central bank or monetary authority is not a member of the WAMA. 823 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 824 SENEGAL Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning (MEFP), which has delegated a part of its approval authority to the BCEAO and to author- ized banks. The Directorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs offices monitor outflows of foreign exchange and confirm imports and exports of goods. All ex- change operations with foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the postal administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO and the MEFP exercise exchange con- trols ex post. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on precious metal brokers. Imports and exports of gold originating in or bound to non-WAEMU countries require prior authorization from the MEFP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 500 grams. CFA franc banknotes may be exported freely by travelers. However, the suspension of BCEAO repurchases of exported banknotes continues. In addition, the exchange of BCEAO banknotes between authorized dealers and their correspondents outside the WAEMU is prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 is allowed. In order to reexport foreign banknotes in excess of this ceiling, the traveler must provide documentation showing that the notes were imported or pur- chased with another means of payment recorded in the traveler's name or via a withdrawal from a nonresident account at a local bank. Banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO may be imported freely by residents or nonresidents. Nonresidents and residents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must sell them to an authorized dealer within eight days. Nonresidents are required to make a written declaration of all means of payment they hold in excess of CFAF 1 million upon entry into or departure from Senegal. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening of these accounts with authorized dealers in Senegal is permitted, but is subject to prior approval by the MEFP with the consent of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required. Individuals traveling abroad may open bank accounts to receive foreign currency legiti- mately exported or earned during their stay abroad. However, residents are required to repatriate assets held in these accounts within 30 days of their return. In all other cases, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 825 the prior authorization of the MEFP, with the agreement of the BCEAO, is required to open an account abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold these accounts with authorized financial institutions, but prior approval of the BCEAO is required. These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEFP, which is given with the consent of the BCEAO. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident-owned foreign-currency accounts may be debited freely for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the official exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the contractual date of the payments. Exchange authorization, invoices, and import-export cards are required. Import transactions originating in countries outside the CFA franc zone are required to be domiciled with authorized banks if imports exceed CFAF 5 million. An inspection is required for the quantity, quality, and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 million f.o.b. Imports of narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Quantitative restrictions may be applied to products for public health and security reasons. The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A WAEMU community levy of 1% and an ECOWAS levy of 0.5%, in addition to a statistical tax of 1%, are levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports, excluding those between WAEMU countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through the BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank all foreign exchange proceeds from abroad or from nonresidents within a month after the due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SENEGAL Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports having a value in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled, except those between WAEMU countries. Licenses are required for gold exports. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be made freely. Payments and receipts made by foreign ships in WAEMU ports or by WAEMU ships in foreign ports are considered current transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident travelers must present a travel document and a valid passport or a national identity card to an authorized intermediary before foreign exchange will be issued. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other means of payment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon presentation of pay slips. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit cards issued by specialized agencies may be used. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be repatriated, but need not be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 827 Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in for- eign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital movements between WAEMU member countries are free of exchange control. With the exception of (1) current payments; (2) transfers of amounts necessary for the con- tractual amortization of debts and the repayment of short-term loans granted to finance industrial and commercial operations; (3) transfers of proceeds from the liquidation of in- vestments or sale of foreign securities by nonresidents; and (4) payments for the purchase of options, capital transfers to all non-WAEMU countries require MEFP approval; capital receipts from these countries, however, are permitted freely. Foreign borrowing must be reported for statistical purposes only. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the following operations: issuing or marketing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, and publicity or advertising for investment abroad. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are subject to declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue or marketing of securities by nonresidents is subject to prior authorization from the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These operations, as well as transfers of related funds, require the approval of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of securities for disinvestment purposes in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident. Settlement for transfers or crediting of funds to the account of a nonresident requires an exchange authorization, which is subject to MEFP approval. Foreign currency proceeds from the sale of securities or disinvestment must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. These instruments, which are virtually unknown in Senegal, are governed by the regula- tions applicable to securities and investments. Residents may freely purchase—abroad or from nonresidents—call or put options for commodities or securities. Residents may not purchase commodities or securities on foreign markets for delivery in a put option contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for delivery abroad in execution of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial credits may be granted freely in connection with merchandise exports if the due date of the payment is within 120 days of the shipment of the merchandise. Commer- cial credits in connection with the provision of services may be granted freely by residents; no limit is set for the payment due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SENEGAL To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Nonresidents may grant freely commercial credits to resident institutions. Repayments of commercial credits are generally authorized, subject to the submission of supporting documents. These credits require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service these facilities requires an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the MEFP, and the submission of supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these loans. The funds required for servicing these facilities must be transferred abroad by an authorized intermediary bank. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The granting of guarantees and sureties is subject to prior approval by the MEFP. Transfer abroad of the funds required to service these facilities requires issuance of an exchange permit, subject to approval of the MEFP and the submission of supporting documents. These facilities may be granted freely, although the funds required for servicing them must be transferred abroad by an authorized bank. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct investment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and therefore require a prior declara- tion to the MEFP. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment unless it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. All investments abroad by Senegalese residents, including investments through foreign companies under the direct or indirect control of residents of Senegal and investments by foreign branches or subsidiaries of companies established in Senegal, require the prior authorization of the MEFP; up to 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign borrowing. No authorization is re- quired for the purchase of foreign securities if the RCPSFM has authorized their issue or marketing in WAEMU countries. Foreign direct investments in Senegal, including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEFP for statistical purposes. The liquidation of investments by residents abroad must be reported to the MEFP. The reinvestment of the proceeds of such liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Senegal is allowed, but must be reported for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEFP for statistical purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Sales between nonresidents and residents require the submission of supporting documen- tation to the authorized intermediary that handles the settlement and must be declared to the MEFP. Unless prior authorization is received from the MEFP, capital movements between resi- dents and nonresidents must be made through the central bank, the postal administration, or an authorized intermediary bank. Loans of any kind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents by authorized intermediaries are subject to prior MEFP authorization with the consent of the BCEAO. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 829 To residents from nonresidents These transactions may be made freely, but they are subject to declaration for statistical purposes to the MEFP when granted and when repaid. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Inheritances and legacies are generally authorized. Gifts and endowments, however, are subject to prior MEFP authorization. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Immigrants with resident status must obtain the prior authorization of the MEFP to settle debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to presentation of supporting documents to the MEFP. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad For statistical purposes, these transactions must be declared to the MEFP when they are granted and when they are repaid. Banks and other financial institutions may open accounts with their correspondent banks to settle operations for their own account or for their customers. However, banks may not keep amounts exceeding their current requirements in these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These operations are allowed when they consist of commercial credits. Prior MEFP authorization is required for loans and financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange n.r. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents These purchases require prior RCPSFM authorization. Loans of any kind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MEFP authorization, with the agreement of the BCEAO. These claims are included in the external position of banks and financial institutions, which is subject to special monitoring. Yes. The regulations governing direct investment apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors These positions, which require an exceptional waiver, are not subject to prudential ratios. Restrictions are imposed by the insurance code of the Inter-African Conference on Insur- ance Markets (CIMA). Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA code in effect in Senegal includes specific rules on the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Various commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Seychelles rupee is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners. Effective January 3, 2001, the weights are as follows: the euro (37.7%—previously 31.2%) , the Japanese yen (2.7%—previously 3.7%), the pound sterling (15.7%—previously 16.8%), the Singapore dollar (7.7%—previously 10.3%), the South African rand (10.5%—previously 11.5%), and the U.S. dollar (25.7%—previously 26.5%). Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Sey- chelles (CBS) circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. The CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dol- lars, and, through December 31, 2001, 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs. Effective January 1, 2002, the CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of euros. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective currencies. Other authorized dealers include casinos, guest houses, hotels, restaurants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, car rental services, boat charters, shipping agents, and ship chandlers. These dealers are restricted to buying only in the course of their licensed activity. They must sell an allocated percentage of their foreign currency proceeds to commercial banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nonresidents are required to pay for selected services in foreign currency. Yes. Yes. Regional arrangements Seychelles is a participant in the COMESA and RIFF. 830 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 831 Administration of control The exchange control authorities are the CBS and the Ministry of Economic Planning (MEP). The MEP partially controls foreign trade through a mechanism of import/export and price controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold freely in any form, except for dealings in gold bullion, which are restricted to authorized dealers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Effective June 1, 2001, the maximum amount of domestic currency that travelers may take out of the country was increased to SR 2,000 from SR 100. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency. Effective June 1, 2001, the maximum amount of domestic currency that travelers may bring into the country was increased to SR 2,000 from SR 100. Foreign currency Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 832 SEYCHELLES Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly An import permit is required. Importers other than individuals are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority, in accordance with objective criteria. In addition, for each shipment of goods, an importer must apply to the Import Control Division of the MEP for a permit, the granting of which is discretionary. Permits are normally not granted for used vehicles and some nonessential goods. An import quota system applicable to most imports is in effect. The quota allocation system is based on 75% of importers' 1995 imports. Imports related to the tourist industry are granted a higher percentage of their 1995 imports, and new importers are allocated SR 50,000. Imports are subject to taxes of up to 200%, with most goods subject to rates ranging between 5% and 30%. The Seychelles Marketing Board has a monopoly on imports of rice, sugar, meat, vegeta- bles, margarine, tomato sauce, animal feed, oil, coffee and tea, fruits, flour, and chili sauce. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be transacted through domestic commercial banks, which are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. Surrender requirements are 45%, and are mostly earmarked to finance essential imports and debt-service payments. The remainder is used by commercial banks in accordance with the priority listing. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents must surrender the proceeds to a commercial bank within 14 days of the transaction. Receipts, with the exception of dividend remittances and transfers of management fees, may be disposed of freely. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement SEYCHELLES 833 Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign investment is permitted freely, provided that such investment does not involve ownership of land. No. Yes. Yes. No. Effective November 1, 2001, the liquidity reserve ratio for commercial banks was reduced to 50% of their deposit liabilities from 70%. The cash reserve ratio is 2.5%. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2001 January 3. The weights of the currencies in the basket to which the rupee is pegged were changed as follows: the euro (37.7%—previously 31.2%), the Japanese yen (2.7%—previously 3.7%), the pound sterling (15.7%—previously 16.8%), the Singa- pore dollar (7.7%—previously 10.3%), the South African rand (10.5%—previously 11.5%), and the U.S. dollar (25.7%-previously 26.5%). Arrangements for payments and receipts June 1. The maximum amount of domestic currency that travelers may take out of or bring into the country without prior authorization was increased to SR 2,000 from SR 100. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 1. The liquidity reserve ratio for commercial banks was reduced to 50% of their deposit liabilities from 70%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 834 SEYCHELLES Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. The CBS begem to charge a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of euros (previously, commissions of 0.500% on purchases and 1.000% on sales of French francs were charged). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean leone. Exchange rate structure Dual. Classification Independently floating Exchange rates are freely determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and li- censed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade freely among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), the central bank. The BSL determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, including the rate for customs valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted average mid-rate of purchases and sales made by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus during the last five business days and at the weekly auction. The official buying and selling rates are set within ±1% of the official mid-rate. Foreign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transactions and are not allowed to sell traveler's checks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones and credited to an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified convertible currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. The MOF formulates exchange control policy in consultation with the BSL, but the day-to- day administration of exchange control is carried out by the BSL with the assistance of the commercial banks. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Effective January 31, 2002, rescheduling arrangements were concluded; therefore, all official arrears were cleared. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, or sell certain Sierra 835 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 836 SIERRA LEONE Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Exports of gold require a license. Imports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, require an individual import license. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Employees on official business may take out up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Resident travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 without restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 with supporting documents. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet their operational requirements. Resident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any con- vertible currency. These accounts, for which minimum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permitted for current international transactions without prior approval from the BSL, subject to fulfilling the regulations governing the transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. n.a. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. All documented inward remittances may also be transferred abroad without reference to the BSL. Accounts in leones held on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accred- ited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits into external accounts are vetted by the BSL, and credit balances of the accounts may be used for external payments without reference to the BSL. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency, but approval is required for capital transactions. Blocked accounts Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 837 Financing requirements for imports n.r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be sub- mitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone, supported by the following documents: com- pleted exchange control form, original pro forma invoice, final invoice, original bill of lading/airway bill, tax clearance certificate, and preshipment inspection certificate. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an interna- tional company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources do not require LCs established with a local commercial bank. All goods, except military goods, may be imported freely without a license. A sales tax of 20% of the landed value is levied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated businesses are subject to a 3% tax as advance payment of income taxes. The customs tariff rates are: 5% on most food items and raw materials, petroleum products, and most con- sumer durables; 15% on rice and baby foods; 20% on other food items; and 30% on luxury consumer goods. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters must repatriate export proceeds within 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced from external sources are not subject to the repatriation requirement. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exporters of commercial goods are required to complete export forms that must be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1% before clearing their goods through customs. Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for one year, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25% silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, or pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Yes. Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an export tax of 3%, based on the value in dollars of diamonds exported. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commer- cial banks. Prior to January 1, 2001, when this requirement was abolished, a tax clearing certificate for payments and transfers for certain types of current international transactions was required. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit is the equivalent of $5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 838 SIERRA LEONE Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for travel allowances in excess of the limit must be supported by travel documents, e.g., a ticket or passport. Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Information is not available on the payment of pensions. Commercial banks may make remittances in favor of nonresident employees of interna- tional institutions, agencies, or foreign nongovernmental organizations only up to the re- muneration package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such payments are supported by a valid work permit, a remuneration package agreement, and a tax clear- ance certificate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents BSL approval is required before a security registered in or outside Sierra Leone may be transferred to or purchased by a nonresident. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments All funds accruing on such investment, as well as the capital upon termination of the investment, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission; for permission to be given, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded with domestic resources are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require BSL approval. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Purchases with funds brought from abroad are allowed. BSL certification is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are not yet available in Sierra Leone. Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan in Sierra Leone, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, to nonresident entities. Permission of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 839 To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In addition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the giving or renewal of any guarantee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be fu l ly covered by the nonresident. Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Outward direct investment Investments abroad are not allowed. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. No. Purchase abroad by residents Permission from the BSL is required. Controls on personal capital transactions n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currency. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks do not engage in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in this respect. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks do not engage in this lending, Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.a. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L Tax clearing certificates were no longer required for payments and transfers for certain types of current international transactions. Changes During 2001 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts January 31. Rescheduling arrangements were concluded, and all official arrears were thus cleared. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of April 30, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore dollar. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable at par without charge in Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The authorities use the exchange rate as an intermediate target, allowing the Singapore dollar to fluctuate within an undisclosed target band. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks may hedge their exchange risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Yes. Yes. Singapore is a member of ASEAN. Singapore has no exchange controls, although the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import and export licensing requirements for a very small number of products. On April 30, 2002, the MAS notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze accounts and assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Financial assets owned by residents of Iraq and Libya, by the Taliban, and by the persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia are blocked. Singapore observes the import and export prohibitions covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. 840 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 841 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Those covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Licenses are required for imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs Very few imports are subject to duty. Singapore is a party to the CEPT scheme for the AFTA. Customs duties are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and automobiles. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export licenses are required for substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer, timber, and rubber. Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in importing countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 SINGAPORE Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may issue equity shares. When the Singapore dollar proceeds of an initial public offering are to be used offshore, these proceeds must be converted into foreign currency upon drawdown by the issuer. Nonresidents may issue bonds. When the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used offshore, they must be swapped or converted into foreign currency upon drawdown by the issuer. All rated and nonrated sovereigns and foreign corporations are allowed to issue Singapore dol- lar bonds. In the case of unrated corporations, the investor base is restricted to sophisticated investors. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that have been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more stories and in approved condominium developments. Foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore are given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accommodate their senior personnel. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) SINGAPORE 843 Singapore's policy discouraging the internationalization of the Singapore dollar has eased significantly in recent years, and only two policy restrictions still remain. First, banks may not extend Singapore dollar credit facilities exceeding S$5 million to any nonresident fi- nancial entity for speculative activities in the foreign exchange market. Second, nonresident financial entities must convert Singapore dollar proceeds obtained from Singapore dollar loans, equity listings, or bond issuance into foreign currency before using them to finance activities outside of Singapore. Lending locally in foreign exchange A bank's lending to a single borrower or groups of borrowers, regardless of residency, is subject to a limit of 25% of its capital. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange In order to limit concentration risk, each investment by a bank in the equity securities of a company —in local or foreign currency—is subject to a limit of 2% of the bank's capital. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements Foreign currency deposits accepted under the ACUs of banks are not subject to the l iqu id asset requirement. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are required to seek prior approval from the MAS to acquire more than 10% of the shares in any company. Approval is not granted for acquisition of shares in nonfinance companies. Open foreign exchange position limits No limits are set by the MAS, but it reviews the internal control systems of banks to ensure that adequate limits and controls are established for treasury activities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurers may include only 30% of their foreign currency-denominated and overseas assets as the part of their admitted assets that goes into the calculation of the solvency of the fund. Of this, 10% must be foreign currency deposits with an approved financial institution, for- eign currency fixed-income securities graded AA and above, and equities listed on any stock exchange. Insurers may include an additional 10% of foreign currency-denominated fixed-income assets that are fu l ly hedged to the Singapore dollar as admitted assets. Insur- ers are allowed to invest assets in relation to the currency of their liabilities. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 30. The MAS notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze accounts and assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Slovak koruna is set in the foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) does not support the koruna's exchange rate but intervenes primar- ily to smooth large fluctuations in the exchange rate and when the exchange rate moves to an unacceptable level. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The Slovak Republic is a member of the CEFTA. The foreign exchange authorities are the MOF and the NBS. The MOF exercises juris- diction in matters relating to other ministries and central bodies of the state administra- tion, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, juridical persons established by separate law who are connected through financial ties to the state budget, and local communities and their budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF maintains foreign exchange records and documents pertaining to interstate negotia- tions on property claims, and implements the results of these negotiations within the coun- try. The NBS exercises jurisdiction pursuant to residents other than those specified above and to nonresidents. No. No. Trade in gold is conducted exclusively by banks to the extent stipulated in their license. There are reporting obligations on exports and imports of banknotes and coins in foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of Sk 150,000 and on post or other deliveries containing banknotes and coins exceeding the equivalent of Sk 20,000. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. 844 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 845 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Natural persons are eligible to open foreign exchange accounts during their stay abroad; otherwise, approval from the NBS is required. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. A resident may open an account abroad, or enter into a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only after obtaining a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign ex- change permit is not required (1) when the resident has a banking or foreign exchange li- cense; (2) in connection with a private individual's stay abroad; (3) if the funds are needed to cover the documented operating costs of the resident's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of depositing the resident's foreign exchange funds if foreign legislation forbids the transfer of such funds to the country; or (5) if the funds are needed for the payment of fees, taxes, and other documented expenses related to the administration and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. A foreign exchange permit is required for a resident to open or maintain koruna accounts abroad or to enter into a contract to take custody of a deposit of koruna funds in an account maintained abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency This applies to current international transactions and for permitted capital account transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Effective January 1, 2001, a nonautomatic licensing system applies to the following goods: (1) beer, soft drinks, and sugar from the Czech Republic; (2) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (3) shoes from China (previously, this system also applied to brown coal, oil, and natu- ral gas imported from Russia, and to sugar from Poland, and did not apply to diamonds from Sierra Leone). Effective January 1, 2002, this system applies to: (1) soft drinks from the-Czech Republic, (2) sugar from all countries except the Czech Republic, (3) diamonds from Sierra Leone, and (4) shoes from China. Other nontariff measures A system of variable levies accompanies import licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports, except those from the Czech Republic, with whom there is a customs union, and from countries with whom the Slovak Republic has preferential agreements, are subject to an ad valorem tariff. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treat- ment under the GSP; thus, 48 least-developed countries and 98 developing countries are granted 100% and 50% reductions, respectively, from duties applicable to selected com- modities. Imported goods are taxed with a VAT, and there are excise duties on mineral oils, spirits, wine, beer, and tobacco. On January 1, 2001, a temporary import surcharge of 5% was abolished. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Residents are required to transfer all funds acquired abroad in koruny or foreign exchange to the country without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in con- nection with the acquisition of such funds, within 30 days from the date of acquisition, from the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. This obligation does not apply to (1) foreign or Slovak currency used by a resident natural person during his/her stay abroad; and (2) reinvestment of earnings from direct investment and from employees' securities, except in cases where such investment requires a foreign exchange permit. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export licenses are required for (1) dangerous chemicals, narcotics, poisons, and psycho- tropic substances and their precursors; (2) firearms and ammunition; and (3) all dual-use goods and technologies. Export licenses are required for (1) a restricted number of agricultural goods; (2) some strategic industrial goods, such as electricity; and (3) scarce, renewable raw materials, such as raw wood, or metal waste. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to allow- ances, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents must repatriate all proceeds in koruny or foreign exchange without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds within 30 days from the date of acquisition, or the date of learning of such acquisi- tion, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 847 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue abroad by residents Effective January 1, 2001, sales, issues, and purchases abroad by residents, as well as sales and issues locally by nonresidents, no longer require a foreign exchange permit. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Effective January 1, 2001, these transactions do not require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Prior to that date, only the following types of transactions required a permit: (1) foreign securities accepted for trading on the listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange; (2) government bonds issued by foreign countries; or (3) foreign exchange trans- actions in which the government or the NBS participated. For issue of municipal debt securities and debt securities with a maturity of less than one year or debt securities with possible early repayment within one year after their issue, a permit from the Financial Market Authority (FMA) is required. Effective January 1, 2001, these transactions do not require a foreign exchange permit from the NBS. Prior to that date, the following transactions required a permit: (1) foreign exchange transactions in which the government or the NBS participated; (2) foreign securi- ties accepted for trading on the listed (prime) market of a foreign stock exchange; and (3) government bonds issued by foreign countries. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. In addition, issuance of securities is subject to a permit from the FMA. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may perform this activity through the mediation of their branch in the Slovak Republic. However, a permit from the FMA is required. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents A resident who is an authorized foreign exchange dealer and is not a bank or a securities trader may enter into contracts for dealing in financial derivatives only on the basis of a foreign exchange permit. A foreign exchange permit is not required when the contract or business is effected with an authorized foreign exchange dealer within the range allowed by the banking or foreign exchange license. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Prior to January 1, 2001, these transactions required a foreign exchange permit from the MOF or the NBS. Effective that date, foreign exchange permits are no longer required for these transactions. Prior to January 1, 2001, these transactions required a foreign exchange permit from the MOF or the NBS. Effective that date, foreign exchange permits are no longer required for these transactions. Prior to January 1, 2001, these transactions required a foreign exchange permit from the MOF or the NBS. Effective that date, foreign exchange permits are no longer required for these transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 848 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Prior to January 1, 2001, these transactions required a foreign exchange permit. Effective that date, foreign exchange permits are no longer required for these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A foreign exchange permit from the NBS and an agreement from the MOF are required, except when the investment is made in an OECD or EEA member country. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents A foreign exchange permit is required, except for purchases in OECD or EEA member countries. Nonresidents, with the exception of Slovak citizens, may acquire real estate in the country only (1) by inheritance; (2) for the purpose of establishing diplomatic representation of a foreign country under conditions of mutuality; (3) when the real estate acquired is co- owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresident, or when a non- resident acquires real estate from a spouse, sibling, parent, or grandparent; (4) when there is an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonresident for other domestic fixed assets, the price of which, pursuant to separate regulations, does not exceed the price of the origi- nal real estate as determined in accordance with separate regulations; (5) when the nonresi- dent has preemptive purchase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was built by the nonresident on his or her own land; (7) when expressly per- mitted under separate legislation; (8) when branches of foreign banks, commercial insur- ance companies, security traders, and trustees use the real estate in the course of their core business activity; and (9) effective January 1, 2002, in the case of nonresidents domiciled in the EU or OECD countries who have established a branch in the Slovak Republic and need the real estate for business purposes. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks must conduct their activities in accordance with their banking license. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed in accordance with the banking foreign exchange license. Maintenance of accounts abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad is allowed in accordance with the banking foreign exchange license. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is allowed with a foreign exchange permit. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed in accordance with the banking license. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Effective January 1, 2001, foreign exchange permits are no longer required for banks that do not have foreign exchange securities dealings included in their banking license. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits A foreign exchange permit from the NBS is required when the banking license does not include dealing in foreign securities except for foreign direct investment in an OECD or EEA member country. Effective January 1, 2002, banks may not invest more than 15% of their cash reserves in a foreign company abroad, nor may the total of all investments in foreign companies abroad exceed 60% of a bank's cash reserves. The same regulations apply to both residents and nonresidents. Five categories—5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%—for investment are defined, for which the investors are required to obtain prior NBS approval. Effective January 15, 2001, the open foreign exchange position in euros may not exceed 15% of a bank's capital, and all other currency positions are limited to 10% of a bank's capital. Prior to that date, the uncovered open foreign exchange position for the Czech koruna, the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc could not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and the uncovered foreign exchange position for other currencies could not exceed 5% of a bank's capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 849 The total uncovered foreign exchange position of banks may not exceed 25% of capital. For purposes of calculating capital, the method used to calculate capital adequacy is applied. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Five categories—5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%—are defined in respect of a security trader's whole equity, and for which a permit from the FMA is required. This regulation applies to both residents and nonresidents. Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2001 January 1. The nonautomatic licensing system became applicable to the following goods: (1) beer, soft drinks, and sugar from the Czech Republic; (2) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (3) shoes from China. January 1. A 5% temporary import surcharge was abolished. Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. Sales, issues, and purchases abroad of shares, securities of a participating na- ture, bonds, and other debt securities no longer required a foreign exchange permit. January 1. Sales and issues locally by nonresidents of shares, securities of a participating nature, bonds, and other debt securities no longer required a foreign exchange permit. Controls on credit operations January L Foreign exchange permits were no longer required for transactions involving commercial credits, financial credits, or guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Imports and import payments Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L The requirement that banks that do not have foreign exchange securities deal- ings included in their banking license have foreign exchange permits in order to purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange was lifted. January 15. The maximum open foreign exchange position for banks was adjusted, such that a bank's open position in euros may not exceed 15%, and that in all other currencies are limited to 10% of a bank's capital. Previously, the uncovered open foreign exchange position for the Czech koruna, the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc could not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and the uncovered foreign exchange position for other currencies could not exceed 5% of a bank's capital. Changes During 2002 January L The nonautomatic licensing system was applied to: (1) soft drinks from the Czech Republic, (2) sugar from all countries except the Czech Republic, (3) diamonds from Sierra Leone, and (4) shoes from China. January L Nonresidents domiciled in the EU or OECD countries who have established a branch in the Slovak Republic were allowed to acquire property rights to real estate necessary for the acquisition of business premises for that branch. January 1. Banks were not allowed to invest more than 15% of their own funds in a foreign company abroad, and the total of a bank's investments in such companies was limited to 60% of a bank's cash reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Slovenia is the Slovenian tolar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the tolar is determined in the interbank exchange market, in which the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may participate. The BOS also may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Ju- ridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks. Prior to January 1, 2002, the BOS published daily a moving 60-day average exchange rate for customs valua- tion and statistical and accounting purposes, as well as for government transactions. Be- tween January 1, 2002, and March 7, 2002, the BOS published the rate daily as a moving 14-day average. Effective March 8, the BOS publishes this rate as a daily moving average. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Slovenia maintains a payments agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia. The agreement allows juridical persons to conduct transactions through nonresi- dents' accounts. Also, there is an agreement with Italy related to trade between the two border regions. Slovenia is a member of the CEFTA. Exchange control is exercised by (1) the BOS on the foreign exchange operations of banks and foreign exchange offices; (2) the Foreign Exchange Inspectorate within the MOF on foreign exchange and foreign trade operations of natural and juridical persons other than banks; and (3) the customs authorities, who verify that the necessary conditions are met for the cross-border transfers of goods, banknotes, securities, and gold. Yes. In compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, Slovenia maintains certain restric- tions with regard to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and has frozen the funds and other financial resources of Iraq, the Taliban, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. 850 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 851 Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency No. n.r. On January 1, 2002, restrictions on imports and exports of domestic and foreign banknotes by residents and nonresidents were abolished. In accordance with the Law on the Preven- tion of Money Laundering, however, imports and exports of banknotes and securities ex- ceeding the equivalent of SIT 3 million must be reported to the customs authorities (previ- ously, imports and exports of foreign currency exceeding SIT 2.8 million had to be reported). Prior to January 1, 2002, residents and nonresidents were allowed to take abroad up to SIT 500,000 a person; for any excess amount, prior approval of the BOS was required. Prior to January 1, 2002, residents were allowed to take abroad up to the equivalent of SIT 500,000 a person; for any excess amount, prior approval of the BOS was required. Prior to January 1, 2002, residents and nonresidents could bring into the country up to SIT 500,000 a person; for any excess amount, prior approval of the BOS was required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad All residents may open and operate foreign exchange accounts without restriction upon proof of identity. The following residents are allowed to maintain accounts abroad: (1) banks; (2) natural persons with a temporary residence in Slovenia based on a valid resident visa or work per- mit with a validity of more than six months; (3) natural persons with a permanent residence in Slovenia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad with a validity of more than six months; (4) residents (other than juridical persons) performing services in the international transportation of goods and passengers and in insurance companies; and (5) effective July 1, 2001, juridical persons. Other residents may maintain accounts abroad only with BOS approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts All nonresidents may open and operate accounts without restriction upon proof of identity. Effective January 1, 2001, tolar cash withdrawals are not limited. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts To implement UN resolutions and for reasons of national security, the accounts pertaining to entities associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are blocked. In accordance with UN resolutions, accounts are also blocked with respect to the Taliban, Iraq, and the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 852 SLOVENIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Commercial banks may require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction before effecting payment. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of controlling items that effect security and public health, have been retained for specific groups of goods (seeds and planting materials of agricultural and forest plants, materials for breeding animals, pharma- ceutical products, military equipment, waste, toxic and explosive substances, and precious metals), as well as original sculptures, statues, and antiques, in accordance with interna- tional conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products and clothing. Annual import quotas are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries with which Slovenia has free trade agreements. In accordance with the WTO schedule, the bound tariff rate for industrial and agricul- tural products is 27% except for some agricultural products, for which the bound tariff rate is either 45% or a tariff rate plus a specific duty. However, the conventional rate of duty currently applied is 8.76% on average for all sectors; for industry it is 7.68%; and for agriculture, 12.6%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports are not restricted except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance with the international conventions and codes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents SLOVENIA 853 Foreign securities may be offered in Slovenia only through an authorized participant in the securities market. Domestic securities may be purchased and sold domestically only through an authorized domestic participant in the securities market. Prior to July 1, 2001, when controls on purchases of securities by nonresidents were lifted, nonresidents had to open custody accounts for purchases of securities, except for purchases (1) from initial public offerings; (2) of shares representing more than 10% of voting rights or more than 10% in equity of a public limited company; or (3) of private placements. Likewise, commercial banks had to pay a premium, established quarterly by the BOS, for the right to buy foreign exchange to cover the security position of this custody account — the premium was not charged in connection with the balances held with respect to the port- folio investments that, effective January 1, 2001, have been committed for six months or more (previously one year or more). The premium was set quarterly by the governor of the BOS; the premium set for the first quarter of 2001 was 0.2% of the total balances of the custody account. The regulations governing sales locally by nonresidents also apply to purchases locally by nonresidents. The issue of securities by nonresidents is governed by the regulations on the securities market. Prior to July 1, 2001, when controls on purchases of securities abroad by residents were lifted, residents other than banks, investment funds, and insurance companies, could pur- chase abroad only (1) securities that were issued by an OECD-member state or interna- tional financial institution; (2) securities with minimum AA rating (without any restric- tions); and (3) other securities traded on stock exchanges that are members of the International Federation of Stock Exchanges. In all cases, prior submission of a written statement of risk acquaintance was required. Residents, other than banks and savings banks, must, following the prior approval of the MOF, obtain permission from the Securities Market Agency (SMA) to introduce eq- uity securities abroad. Residents may sell securities abroad solely through authorized participants. Purchases of bonds in private placements are treated as credit transactions; for other catego- ries, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature also apply. The issue of foreign debt securities is permitted only with the permission of the MOF. To obtain permission, the issuer must have an adequate financial rating and the debt securities must have at least a three-year maturity and must be denominated in tolars. Purchases of bonds in private placements are treated as credit transactions. The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature also apply. Prior to January 1, 2002, when controls on purchases of securities on the domestic market by nonresidents were lifted, the BOS set the conditions for these transactions. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The BOS sets the conditions for these transactions. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The MOF sets the conditions for the sale of these securities. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 SLOVENIA Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Residents are obliged to report within 30 days the outward direct investment to the MOF. Foreign direct investments are not allowed in the production and trade of military equip- ment, and the provision of mandatory pension and health insurance financed by the budget. If not restricted by a special law, foreign direct investment in other fields is allowed freely. Foreign banks, insurance companies, and stockbroking companies are allowed to open branches in Slovenia. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The transfer of proceeds is free of controls after all tax obligations in Slovenia have been met. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire the right to own real estate pursuant to the provisions of a law or an international agreement, under condition of reciprocity. Foreign states may also acquire the right to own real estate used for diplomatic and consular purposes under the condition of reciprocity. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Banks are obliged to hold minimum reserves with the BOS. The required reserve ratios are applied only on tolar deposits. Banks are required to hold reserves of foreign exchange in the form of liquid assets abroad and investments in foreign currency bills issued by the BOS (at least 60% of the require- ment), to ensure overall liquidity of payments abroad and to fu lf i ll their obligations to hold- ers of deposits in foreign exchange, both domestic and foreign persons. Deposits of non- resident household and legal entities in foreign exchange are taken into account for the calculation of the prescribed amount. Effective January 1, 2002, banks must observe liquid- ity ratios separately in respect of domestic currency and foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and hold the required amount of currency bills issued by the BOS. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks must report these transactions to the MOF within 30 days. In banks by nonresidents BOS approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are required to limit their daily foreign exchange exposure to 20% of their capital and their monthly average foreign exchange exposure to 10% of their capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors The Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies specifies that (1) nonresidents may own more than 20% of the shares of management companies only with the approval of the SMA; (2) nonresidents may own more than 10% of the shares of authorized man- agement companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouchers in the privatization process) only with the approval of the SMA and the Ministry of Economy; and (3) investment funds' investment in foreign securities may not exceed 10% of total investments. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 855 Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no limitations on foreign ownership of stockbroking companies. Acquisitions of shares and the establishment of subsidiaries and branches by nonresident investment firms are subject to nondiscriminatory prudential rules. Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2001 July L Juridical persons were allowed to hold accounts abroad. April L Tolar cash withdrawals were no longer limited. Controls on capital and money market instruments January L The minimum time for which portfolio investments must be committed without incurring a premium was reduced to six months from one year. July L Controls on purchases of securities abroad by residents were lifted. July L Controls on purchases of securities by nonresidents were lifted. Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January L The BOS began to publish a daily 14-day average exchange rate (previously, the BOS published daily a moving 60-day average exchange rate). Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions March 8. The BOS began to publish a daily moving average exchange rate. January L Restrictions on imports and exports of domestic and foreign banknotes by resi- dents and nonresidents were abolished. In accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, however, imports and exports of banknotes and securities exceeding the equivalent of SIT 3 million must be reported to the customs authorities (previously, imports and exports of foreign currency exceeding SIT 2.8 million had to be reported). Controls on capital and money market instruments January L Controls on purchases of securities on the domestic market by nonresidents were lifted; previously, the BOS set the conditions for these transactions. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Banks were required to observe liquidity ratios separately in respect of domestic currency and foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and hold the required amount of currency bills issued by the BOS. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 24, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control During June-early November 2000, the Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) pegged the Solomon Islands dollar to the U.S. dollar to reduce exchange uncertainty. In mid-November 2000, the CBSI returned to its policy of using changes in the value of a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trading partners as a guide to daily variations of the parity. These variations, however, are programmed to yield modest weekly depreciations of the currency against the U.S. dollar, with daily varia- tions limited to an undisclosed narrow band. The CBSI provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the CBSI and the public. The commercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. Effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of the Solomon Islands was reclas- sifled to the category crawling peg from the category conventional pegged arrangement. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. No. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Islands in any currency. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met only by pay- ments in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a branch in the Solomon Islands. Solomon Islands participates in the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the CBSI through the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations. The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain transactions. The limit on payment applications that may be approved by commercial banks is US$1,000, or the equivalent, with the CBSI approving all other bona fide requests for for- eign exchange. The CBSI has introduced delays in external payments, with payments for amounts greater than US$25,000 but less than US$40,000 to be made in two equal weekly installments, and those for amounts higher than US$40,000 to be made in four equal weekly installments. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 856 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Foreign currency SOLOMON ISLANDS 857 Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Commercial mining companies require a license from the Ministry of Natural Resources (MONR) to mine gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the MONR to mine, buy, or export gold. Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the CBSI, which is not normally given. Nonresidents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel costs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts when there is a genuine need. Exporters are allowed to hold 20% of their export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts. Accounts may be opened only in one currency, which is chosen by the exporter. Held domestically These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts may be held, but proof of bona fide need is required. These accounts may be held only at authorized foreign exchange dealers. Balances may be transferred abroad with the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. CBSI approval is required for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Blocked accounts No mechanism exists for these accounts. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$5,000 without reference to the CBSI. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 SOLOMON ISLANDS Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective January 1, 2001, the levy on imports was eliminated and the maximum import duty was reduced to 20%. There is no duty on imports from Melanesian countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within three months of the date of export. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an authorized dealer; exporters are allowed to retain 20% of their export earnings. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Goods for export are inspected by customs officers. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Residents may export goods, other than round logs, without exchange control formalities, but they must comply with the terms of a general authorization issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs require specific authority from the CBSI and a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation, and Environment. If exporters cannot meet the conditions of a general authorization (repatriation, surrender, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for specific authorization. Authorization is not needed for goods valued under SI$250 in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of individual travelers. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 35%. If the value is greater than SI$250 per cubic meter, the tax is 38%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is readily granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas and for pay- ments of services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to non- residents from companies in the Solomon Islands on submission of proof that they are properly due. Limits on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments are based on the previously approved repayment schedule. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Approval is normally granted for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be submitted to an authorized dealer, and presentation of passports and airline tickets is required. Approval is readily granted. In the case of medical expenses, the application must be sup- ported by an invoice from the provider of the medical services, or from an educational institution for studies abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is readily granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 859 Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Approval is required, but it is readily granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Approval is required for the disposal of proceeds other than through sales to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents CBSI approval is required for all capital and money market transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 SOLOMON ISLANDS Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Only the acceptance of guarantees, securities, and financial backup facilities from nonresi- dents is free of controls. Investment by resident individuals or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain conditions, including the likely benefit to the Solomon Islands. Inward direct investment Approval by the Foreign Investment Board (FIB) is required for initial or increased foreign investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Approval is readily granted for the transfer of proceeds. Sales of investments by nonresi- dents to either residents or nonresidents require FIB approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Only the transfer of assets into the country by immigrants is free of controls. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements The liquid asset requirement is 7.5%. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set at SI$2.5 million for each commercial bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies must obtain permission from the Commissioner of Insurance to remit reinsurance premiums abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of the Solomon Islands was reclassifled to the category crawling peg from the category conventional pegged arrangement. January I. The levy on imports was eliminated and the maximum import duty was reduced to 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 1998) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali shilling. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, comprising the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and the two commercial banks operating as authorized dealers. The rate in this market applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the gov- ernment; and (2) a free market, in which the exchange rate is freely negotiated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali shilling is determined in the free market by supply and demand. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (Djibouti francs, euros, Kuwaiti dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, pounds sterling, and dollars); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel. n.a. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the CBS. International security restrictions Payments arrears n.a. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold and acquire, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the CBS; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that origi- nate in member countries of the EU are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10% duty. 861 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 SOMALIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents may bring in with them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Com- mercial and Savings Bank, which acts on behalf of the CBS. Resident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through external accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to import- ers holding export/import accounts and may be used only for payments for merchandise imports. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in dollars may be opened with the CBS by foreign embassies, international institutions, and nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports All payments for private imports must be effected through LCs. Private importers may establish LCs for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in these cases, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirements Yes. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A non-interest bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is required to open LCs for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the LCs are settled. Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 863 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medi- cal and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70% of their export earnings. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements An advance payment deposit of 100% of the value of exports is required for exports other than those made under LC arrangements. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT. Exports of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals are subject to prior approval. Yes. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments to Israel are prohibited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for current invisibles through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. The CBS provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts, with the approval of the CBS. Yes. There is a limit of the equivalent of $200 a person a trip for business and tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limit is the equivalent of $3,000 a year for medical expenses. The limit is $1,000 a year for studies abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 864 SOMALIA Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases for medical expenses and studies abroad. Foreign workers' wages Other payments Prior approval Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50%. Yes. Quantitative limits Information is not available on the payment of subscription and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers within f ive business days of their receipts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments must be approved by the Foreign Investment Board, which reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, within a 60-day period. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatri- ated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical as- sets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable after taxes are paid. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 865 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1999-2001 The information provided on the exchange and trade system of Somalia is tentative, as the IMF has received limited information from the authorities in this area since 1998. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of South Africa is the South African rand. Certain gold coins, including the Krugerrand, are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rand is determined in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins with respect to exchange transactions, but may execute transactions in the exchange market, which are typically dollar/rand transactions. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and as- certained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or from nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Subject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) may authorize requests to buy dollars out- right forward. The SARB participates only in the short-term (maturities not exceeding 12 months) forward market on its own initiative and at rates quoted in the market by authorized dealers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia, but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland). Lilan- geni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar banknotes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. The rand may not be used in any foreign exchange transaction, except as described above. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 866 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 867 Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions South Africa is a member of the CMA. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the SARB; in turn, the SARB has permitted dealers to deal with most transactions with- out prior reference to the SARB. South Africa maintains restrictions on current payments and transfers to Iraq, amended in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 986. Restrictions on the transfer of funds to the Taliban and to the UNITA movement in Angola are also in place in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1267, 1333, and 1390. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for nu- mismatic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry. Gold producers may elect to sell their total output to approved counterparties, provided the SARB has given the necessary exemption from the relevant exchange control regulations. This includes sales to foreign counterparties. The current exchange control regulations pertaining to the repatriation of export proceeds remain applicable to gold exports. The mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Authorized dealers have been permitted by the SARB to approve exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers, subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. Banknotes up to R 5,000 may be exported, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The limitation does not apply to migrant workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank- notes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Na- mibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 5,000 in SARB banknotes. South African banknotes repatriated from Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malawi, Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe may be remitted upon submission of documentary evidence that they were not exported from South Africa in contravention of the exchange control regulations. The consignment of banknotes must be accompanied by the confirmation of the repatriating bank that the banknotes were acquired from bona fide travelers from South Africa in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 a traveler. Residents and contract workers leaving South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out their allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them any amount of foreign banknotes brought into the country or ob- tained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 868 SOUTH AFRICA On imports Domestic currency The limit on banknotes that may be imported from countries outside the CMA is R 5,000. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Natural persons may hold foreign currency deposits with authorized dealers. Natural per- sons are allowed to invest R 750,000 abroad. These funds may also be held in a foreign currency account. Prior approval is required to hold these accounts. Yes. Approval is granted based on the merit of the application, and in most circumstances only if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be facili- tated. South African natural persons may invest abroad up to an amount of R 750,000 and may retain abroad foreign-earned income. No prior approval is required to open foreign bank accounts for these purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers are required to open separate nonresident accounts on behalf of non- resident clients in order to distinguish between normal clearing accounts and foreign ex- change trading accounts. The aim of this requirement is to isolate these transactions for monitoring purposes and does not affect the transferability of funds. Foreign currency accounts may be opened for nonresidents and funds on these accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction. These accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by residents, with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers, and with payments from other nonresident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, for transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for payments of the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange con- trol restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer and used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to resi- dents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 869 Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Payments may not be made before the date of shipment or dispatch without prior SARB approval, except for imports of capital goods. Authorized dealers may permit, without the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are automatically granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The negative list includes all used goods, including waste and scrap; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks; dairy products; dried fruit; black tea; certain vegetables and agricultural products; wines; mineral fuels; radioactive chemicals; new pneumatic tires; gold; certain minerals; firearms; gambling machines; ozone-depleting substances; and footwear and footwear components. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Subdirectorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Import quotas apply to certain agricultural and a number of manufactured products, including clothing and textiles imported from Zimbabwe supported with a Quota and Origin Certificate issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of Zimbabwe. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariff rates range up to 69%. A 14% VAT is levied on imports from Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa within 30 days of accrual. Exporters may retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in customer foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be offered for sale within six months of the date of shipment or 30 days of the date of accrual, whichever is sooner. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the fu ll proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in that particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. All exports over R 50,000 must be supported by a declaration (on Forms F178 or N.E.P.), irrespective of their country of destination. Certain agricultural and manufactured goods exported outside the SACU require export permits. In addition to an export permit, military equipment, firearms, and ammunition require an export license issued by the Department of Defense. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 SOUTH AFRICA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Most limits have been removed. Documentary evidence must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Authorized dealers may permit the transfer of commissions against documentary evi- dence confirming the amount involved, provided the rate of commission is normal in the particular trade. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Effective February 21, 2001, South African residents traveling abroad for either business or holiday are allowed R 140,000 a calendar year for each person 12 years or older, and R 45,000 for each child under 12 years without any daily limit, irrespective of the country of destination (previously, these limits were R 130,000 and R 40,000, respectively). Corpo- rations qualify for a global travel allowance of R 2 million a calendar year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the SARD. Personal payments Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Effective February 21, 2001, the limit on living expenses for a student is R 140,000 a year or R 280,000 if accompanied by a spouse. On the same date, the student holiday allowance was increased to R 45,000 or R 90,000 if accompanied by a spouse. There are no limits set for alimony payments, but a court order is required. Authorized dealers may effect transfers for family maintenance purposes at a rate not exceeding R 7,000 a month a family, pro- vided the proposed beneficiaries are either the father, mother, brother, or sister of the appli- cant and are in necessitous circumstances. Prior SARB approval is required for amounts exceeding this limit. Approval is not required in respect of travel expenditures. Expenditure may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Authorized dealers may permit remittances of technical service fees, legal fees, and court costs incurred outside the CMA against the production of documentary evidence confirm- ing the amount involved. Authorized dealers may grant approval for royalty payments, provided the Department of Trade and Industry has approved the relevant royalty agree- ment. Authorized dealers may also permit the remittance of profits and dividends, provided it does not involve excessive use of local credit facilities. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their country of residence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements South African residents (private individuals) earning income abroad from any source other than merchandise exports may retain these funds abroad. Corporate entities are required to remit earnings to South Africa within 30 days of accrual. Entities may retain the proceeds of services rendered for 180 days after accrual in the customer's foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 871 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior exchange control approval, which is not normally granted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Resident institutions may acquire investments as part of their approved portfolio in- vestments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to six months. Banks may in certain circumstances allow a further extension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control ap- proval. In respect of services, payment has to be received under the terms of the contract between the parties within a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended without prior approval. However, nonresident wholly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total share- holders' investment (i.e., the paid-up equity capital; preference shares; undistributed prof- its; shareholders' loans from abroad; and, in certain instances, the hard core of sharehold- ers' trade credit). The ability to borrow locally, which is generally granted, increases with the size of local participation by a set formula. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Firms are allowed to borrow abroad using their South African balance sheet as collateral in cases where the investment acquired exceeds the R 500 million limit (R 750 million in the case of Africa), as described under outward direct investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 SOUTH AFRICA Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transactions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Requests by corporations are considered in light of national interest, such as the benefit to South Africa's international reserves by, for exam- ple, generating exports of goods and services. Effective February 21, 2001, corporations may transfer up to R 500 million (previously R 50 million) to finance approved investments abroad; and up to R 750 million (previously R 250 million) in African countries other than Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland, to which funds already flow freely. If investment ex- ceeds these limits, corporations may transfer additional foreign currency of up to 10% of the excess. Ten percent of the borrowing abroad may be transferred out of South Africa. Individuals over 18 years of age may invest up to R 750,000 overseas or in a foreign cur- rency account in South Africa, provided they obtain a tax clearance certificate from the South African Revenue Service. There are no limits on the type of investment and no re- quirement to advise the authorities of how the funds are used. Income earned abroad and own foreign capital introduced into the Republic on or after July 1,1997, by private indi- vidual residents in South Africa may be retransferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied that the income and/or capital had previously been converted to rand, by viewing documentary evidence confirming the amounts involved. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Such purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign invest- ment limit. Other purchases require prior exchange control approval. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of loans within a limit of R 25,000 an appli- cant during a calendar year. Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are generally not permitted. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of the loan do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of monetary gifts, including loans referred to above, within a limit of R 25,000 an applicant during a calendar year. Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from estates may be remitted abroad. Authorized dealers may provide immigrants with exchange to repay loans received in their previous country of domicile for the specific purpose of financing their relocation to South Africa, provided documentary evidence of the debt is available and the immigrant is not in possession of foreign currency to repay the debt. Emigrants are limited to a onetime total of R 400,000 a family or R 200,000 an individual, but this must include any previous investments overseas. All other assets remain blocked in South Africa. The emigrant is subsequently able to repatriate the annual income from those blocked assets, but is prohibited from disposing of the assets, either by sale to South Afri- can residents or by asset swaps with either a foreign or South African counterpart. Author- ized dealers may also authorize the export of any household and personal effects, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (excluding coins that are legal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad SOUTH AFRICA 873 tender in the Republic) for a family unit or single person emigrating, within the overall insured value of R 1 million. All borrowing abroad by residents requires exchange control approval. Banks may contract short-term working capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may open nostro accounts at their discretion. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000, provided that the total credit made available to an individ- ual from any source does not exceed this amount. Exchange control approval is required for facilities exceeding this amount. Foreign investors are allowed to borrow domestically an amount of rand equal to the value of the foreign exchange they brought into South Africa. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Africa. Reserve requirements on all deposit accounts held by residents or nonresidents and de- nominated in either rand or foreign exchange are 2.5% of total deposit liabilities, reduced with specific items. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of adjusted total liabilities. Investment regulations Investments in immovable property and shares and loans or advances to certain subsidiaries of the bank are limited to 100% of capital plus reserves. Abroad by banks Prior approval of the Registrar of Banks and Exchange Control is required. In banks by nonresidents No approval is required if the shareholding is less than 15% of the bank's issued capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 10% of net qualifying capital plus reserves, for both resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior to February 21, 2001, the exchange control authority could authorize up to 15% of total assets for each qualifying institution (i.e., long-term insurance companies, pension funds, and unit trusts through trust management companies) to be invested abroad by way of an asset swap. As of that date, the use of the asset swap mechanism by these institutions was terminated. Effective that date, the exchange control authority could permit these insti- tutions to make foreign exchange transfers in 2001 of up to 10% of the net inflow of funds during 2000 to acquire foreign portfolio investments, subject to the overall limit of 15% of total assets in the case of long-term insurers and pension funds and of 20% of total assets in the case of unit trusts (through unit trust management companies). Effective November 13, 2001, funds that are registered with the Financial Services Board and stockbroking firms that are members of either the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa (including the South African Futures Exchange) or the Bond Exchange of South Africa and are approved to offer private client asset management may use—during 2001—up to 10% of the net inflow of funds during 2000 for foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of acquiring foreign portfolio investments, subject to permission from the exchange control authority and sub- ject to the existing limit of 15% of total assets under management. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 SOUTH AFRICA Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 21. The limits for travel were increased to R 140,000 for an adult and R 45,000 for a child under 12 from R 130,000 and R 40,000, respectively. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to institutional investors February 21. The limit on allowances for living expenses of a student living abroad was increased to R 140,000 a year (R 280,000 if accompanied by a spouse) and the student holiday allowance was raised to R 45,000 (R 90,000 if accompanied by a spouse). February 21. The limit on individual new outward direct investments in most African countries by South African corporations was raised to R 750 million from R 250 million, and the limit on individual new outward direct investment in other countries was raised to R 500 million from R 50 million. February 21. The mechanism for asset swaps by institutional investors was terminated. February 21. Long-term insurance companies, pension funds, and unit trusts (through trust management companies) were permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad—in 2001—of up to 10% of the net inflow of funds during 2000 for the purpose of acquiring foreign port- folio investments, subject to the overall limit of 15% of total assets in the case of long-term insurance companies and pension funds, and 20% of total assets in the case of unit trusts (through unit trust management companies). Previously, each of these institutions could invest abroad—by way of an asset swap—up to 15% of total assets. November 13. Funds that are registered with the Financial Services Board and stockbroking firms that are members of either the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa (including the South African Futures Exchange) or the Bond Exchange of South Africa and that are ap- proved to offer private client asset management were permitted to transfer foreign ex- change abroad—in 2001—up to 10% of the net inflow of funds during 2000 for the purpose of acquiring foreign portfolio investments, subject to permission from the exchange control authority and subject to the existing limit of 15% of total assets under management. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15,1986. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Spain is the euro. Through February 28, 2002, however, the Spanish peseta remained the legal tender in cash transactions, and between January 1 and February 28, 2002, both the Spanish peseta and the euro circulated. On March 1, 2002, the euro became the sole legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Spain participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece (effective January 1, 2001), Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Portugal. Prior to January 1, 2002, the internal conver- sion rates with respect to the national currencies of EMU participants were fixed to the euro, whereas the external exchange rate of the euro was market determined. The conver- sion rate between the euro and the Spanish peseta was set at Ptas 166.386 per €1. The ECB has the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and futures in pesetas are traded in major financial markets. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. The Directorate-General of Trade and Investment has the power to authorize, verify, con- trol, and monitor foreign investments and economic transactions, collections, payments, and transfers with the rest of the world. The Directorate-General of the Treasury and Finan- cial Policy has authority to conduct the investigations and inspections required to prepare or change the policy applied in matters concerning exchange control as well as to initiate, address, and rule on penalties applied with regard to exchange control. In addition, the Bank of Spain (BOS) has authority in a number of areas, such as (1) granting authorization to banks, savings and loans, and other financial institutions, when required, to transact business on the foreign exchange market, and registering institutions open to the public to engage in foreign exchange activities; (2) receiving information on collections, payments, and transfers abroad in which registered institutions are involved, and issuing instructions pertaining to the content, procedures, and frequency for such reporting; and (3) receiving information on financial and commercial credits and loans, accounts abroad held by resi- dents in Spain, and netting operations. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, Spain maintains certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions —including the freezing of assets—with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, the 875 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 SPAIN Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and Zimbabwe, as well as individuals associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of banknotes in excess of the equivalent of €6,010.12 (prior to Janu- ary 1, 2002, Ptas 1 million) must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to these accounts may be freely made. However, account holders are required to report the opening of such accounts and to provide information pertaining to credit and debit activities occurring in the accounts. Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Spain applies the EU common-import regime. In addition, imports of certain defense materials require prior authorization from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. Yes. In accordance with EU regulations, Spain requires licenses with quotas for certain imports, such as steel and textile products, depending on the country of origin. Import taxes and/or tariffs Spain applies the EU common custom tariffs. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 877 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of certain defense materials require prior authorization from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers In accordance with the Royal Decree on Economic Foreign Transactions, all payments, receipts, and transfers between residents and nonresidents exceeding €12,500 must be declared to the deposit institutions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents (individuals or legal entities other than registered institutions) are required to f i le reports to the BOS of loans to nonresidents exceeding €600,000 with a maturity of more than one year. To residents from nonresidents Residents other than registered institutions are required to file reports to the BOS for credits exceeding €600,000 with a maturity of more than one year. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS for transactions exceeding €3 million. Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS for transactions exceeding €3 million. Effective May 31, 2001, certain investments must be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 SPAIN Controls on liquidation of direct investment Effective May 31, 2001, the liquidation of certain investments must be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases exceeding €1.5 million (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 250 million) must be reported to the MOF's Register of Investments. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases exceeding €3 million (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 million) must be reported to the MOF's Register of Investments. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Sales exceeding €3 million (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 million) must be reported to the MOF's Register of Investments. Although residents may freely transact with nonresidents and receive and extend loans, transactions exceeding €3 million (prior to January 1, 2002, Ptas 500 million) must be reported to the BOS. Borrowing abroad Financial credits obtained must be reported to the BOS. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publications applicable to credit institutions. Yes. EU investors, even though they may be authorized credit institutions in other EU countries, must obtain prior administrative notice. Non-EU institutions may be denied authorization if corporate credit institutions do not enjoy reciprocity in the country of origin of the investor. Regulations differ according to the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws A new law on securities markets is in effect, harmonizing Spanish rules with the relevant EU directives. Changes During 2001 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment May 31. Certain investments were required to be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment May 31. The liquidation of certain investments was required to be declared to the MOF's Register of Investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 879 Changes During 2002 Exchange arrangement January 1. Euro banknotes were introduced. Both the euro and the Spanish peseta could be used for payments through February 28, 2002. March L The euro became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of March 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Prior to January 23, 2001, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) announced in advance daily spot buying and selling rates of the dollar against the rupee for transactions with commercial banks within specific margins. The CBSL bought and sold the dollar on a spot basis at those rates. These margins were changed from time to time since their introduction in 1997, reaching 8% on December 11, 2000, and 10% on January 12, 2001. Effective January 23, 2001, the exchange rate is determined by supply and demand in the market. The CBSL indicates the weighted average interbank rate on a daily basis and participates in buying and selling foreign exchange at or near market prices. Based on this information, the exchange arrangement has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category crawling band. No. No. Previously, forward sales were permitted up to a period of 360 days. Effective January 29, 2001, the maximum period was reduced to 180 days, applicable to payments and receipts in foreign exchange for trade in goods and services. Effective March 1, 2002, this period was once again extended to 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange mar- ket in which rates for current transactions are determined freely. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions and settlements are effected in dollars. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees provided that the supplier maintains a nonresident rupee account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior approval of the CBSL. Sri Lanka is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through authorized commercial banks in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange (COE). Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the COE. The Board of Investment (BOI) handles applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka where special concessions are sought. General permission has been granted for investment by nonresidents in companies whose equity capital is in rupees, subject to certain exclusions and limitations, provided such in- vestments are made through share investment external rupee accounts (SIERA). 880 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency SRI LANKA 881 Effective November 12, 2001, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, banks and other financial institutions were instructed to freeze all capital and assets of indi- viduals, entities, and organizations associated with terrorism. Effective December 28, 2001, banks and other financial institutions were instructed that prior approval is required to maintain corresponding accounts with banks and other finan- cial institutions that do not have a physical presence in any country, also referred to as "shell banks." On February 13, 2002, the Sri Lanka authorities notified the IMF that Da Afghanistan Bank and its offices had been withdrawn from the list of individuals and entities whose assets were frozen in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. No. Effective August 17, 2001, only commercial banks may import gold on a consignment account basis, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the COE. Effective March 16, 2002, Sri Lanka nationals are allowed to take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000 (previously, SL Rs 1,000). Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes only at exit points, against original encashment documents issued by authorized dealers or money changers, and may be taken out. Indi- viduals may take out foreign currency for travel purposes but are required to declare it to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Effective March 16, 2002, Sri Lanka nationals are allowed to bring into Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000 (previously, SL Rs 1,000). Travelers must declare at entry foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000 or its equiva- lent. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, a declaration has to be made, irrespective of the amount. Prescribed currencies may not be imported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts with a minimum bal- ance equivalent to $500 in designated currencies, provided the funds do not relate to any transactions. These accounts may be maintained even if the balance falls below $500. These accounts may be opened, but approval is required (exporters do not need to obtain prior approval). Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 882 SRI LANKA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Sri Lankans employed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lanka origin who are employed and reside abroad may maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in designated foreign currencies. Credits to these accounts are limited to remittances from employment earnings abroad, foreign exchange earnings received in foreign currency and brought into the country by the above-mentioned individuals, approved investment incomes, and interest payments on the accounts. Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, with some exceptions. Dividends and profits earned and sale pro- ceeds from such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to NRFC ac- counts without the prior approval of the COE. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 13 designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its foreign currency banking unit (FCBU). The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the COE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to outward remittances and to payments after converting into Sri Lanka rupees. These accounts may be held by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. For categories (1), (2), and (3), credits from inward remittances and debits for local disbursements or outward remittances may be effected freely through these accounts; however, local credits to these accounts require prior ap- proval. Effective April 20, 2001, interest may be paid on these domestic currency accounts. Accounts held by immigrants (category 4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the COE. Debits to such accounts for local disbursements may be freely effected without prior approval. Interest on blocked funds is permitted for outward remittances net of taxes. However, local credits to these accounts and debits for outward remittances involving capital funds over a ceiling of SL Rs 1 million a family (SL Rs 750,000 a person) require prior approval. Foreign banks (category 5) may open and operate nonresident accounts with local commercial banks without prior approval of the COE. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are convertible, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts These accounts are used to hold funds, usually those of nonresidents, repatriates, and emi- grants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them with pensions and income tax refunds. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Authorized dealers may approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit non- resident accounts against applications for the opening of an LC, documents against pay- ment (DP) terms, or documents on acceptance (DA) terms, and against proof of a valid import license, where applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a con- signment does not exceed the equivalent of $3,000 (c.i.f.) with respect to raw materials and spare parts for the use of a particular industry or for personal use. Advance payment requirements Prior to August 17, 2001, when this limit was eliminated, advance payments for personal imports were limited to the equivalent of $7,500. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective March 19, 2001, the deposit requirement applied to new forward contracts was reduced to 25% from 50%; it was eliminated on July 16, 2001. Imports may be effected against DP and DA terms and LCs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 883 Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for certain consumer goods. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Yes. About 300 items at the six-digit level of the harmonized system code remained under im- port controls at the end of 2001, mostly for public health, public morals, environmental, or national security reasons. All varieties of rice and paddy are subject to licensing to protect domestic producers against low prices. Motor vehicle bodies and parts, cigarette paper, and cashew nuts in shells are subject to licensing requirements. The tariff structure consists of two band rates: 10% and 25%, with a special duty rate of 35% on selected agricultural products, and a concessionary rate of 5% that applies to indus- trial raw materials and machinery manufactured outside Sri Lanka. A 5% duty on nearly 1,000 essential raw materials was removed at end-December 2001. The duty on selected items (e.g., fertilizer and pharmaceutical products) is zero. All products subject to duty (except certain essential goods) are also subject to a temporary surcharge of 40%. Specific duties are imposed on selected items (e.g., potatoes). A few items are outside the two-band system. The import duty on selected agricultural products, such as rice, large onions, green grams, and cowpeas is 35%; for items consid- ered essential for the maintenance of minimum living standards, the import duty is zero. A limited number of items—namely potatoes, sugar, tobacco, and liquor—are under spe- cific rates outside the two-band system. A stamp duty of 2% is levied on LCs for certain imports. A national security levy of 6.5% and a goods and services tax of 12.5% are levied on imports. Effective October 1, 2001, a stamp duty of 1% (previously 2%) is levied on certain im- ports. A national security levy of 6.5% and a goods-and-services tax of 12.5% are levied on imports. Imports of certain items, including guns and explosives, and certain chemicals and crude oil, are restricted to government or state corporations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free either to repatriate export proceeds and have such proceeds credited to any rupee account or to an exporters' foreign currency account with the domestic banking unit of a bank in Sri Lanka or to retain export proceeds abroad in any commercial bank, provided monies in such accounts are not used for acquisition of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Special arrangements apply to exports carried out under trade and payments agreements and to exports to a member country of the ACU. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. Without quotas With quotas Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, handicraft items of ebony, timber (logs or in plank form), and vintage motor vehicles. Export quotas are maintained on textiles and apparel used to implement bilateral quotas under the MFA. The Textile Quota Board allocates quotas among exporters based pr imar i ly on their past export performance. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide tests are applied to all these transactions. Remittances of premiums for general insurance are permitted, subject to the country's in- surance regulations. Effective March 13, 2001, remittances of premiums for reinsurance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 884 SRI LANKA are permitted through authorized dealers without prior approval, subject to documentary requirements. Indicative limits/bona fide test Reasonable amounts of commissions are allowed for export orders secured through agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior approval if they relate to the year of application and do not include undistributed profits of earlier years or reserves of the company. However, relevant documentation is required to remit interim profits or dividends, or final profits or dividends. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meeting expenses and paying taxes and levies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes and personal expenses and not for payments for imports of goods in commercial quantities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Funds retained abroad with COE permission and export proceeds permitted to be retained abroad may not be used for acquiring property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Except for the local purchase by nonresidents of shares or other securities of a participating nature, all capital market securities and money market instruments are controlled. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in shares of up to 100% of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies without prior approval, subject to certain exclusions and limitations, in terms of the general permission granted through a SIERA maintained at a commercial bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Investments under the employee option scheme are permitted, subject to approval from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 885 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents On March 13, 2001, dollar-denominated government bonds, on which interest is paid in dollars, termed "Sri Lanka development bonds," were issued for the first time; designated agents (i.e., authorized and primary dealers) are permitted to invest in these instruments. Effective March 13,2001, nonresidents may invest in Sri Lanka development bonds. Non- resident nationals may invest in any real or financial asset through special accounts ("rupee accounts for nonresident Sri Lankan investment"). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are permitted only in the case of unit trusts in which not more than 20% of the depository property may be invested in government securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective January 23, 2001, borrowers are required to settle credit granted to finance export orders within a period of 90 days from the date of shipment. On February 19, 2001, this period was lengthened to 120 days. While the 120-day limit is usually granted, the decision to extend the limit is left to commercial banks. By residents to nonresidents Export credits are permitted, provided they are effected through a licensed bank. To residents from nonresidents Overseas suppliers may extend credit to importers only if the interest rate is reasonable. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents All licensed banks may extend rupee credit facilities to nonresident-controlled companies that are incorporated in Sri Lanka. However, rupee credit may be extended to nonresident- controlled companies that are approved under Section 17 of the BOI Act only within the prudential limits that were assigned to each bank. To residents from nonresidents Long-term loans require prior approval upon review of the terms and conditions. Preference is given to loans that will be repaid in foreign exchange. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 886 SRI LANKA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments abroad by residents are permitted only with the permission of the Minister of Finance and upon assurance that the investment will yield a net return within a reasonable period. Priority is given to investments that promote domestic exports. Foreign investment is permitted on the basis of the type of business. Nonresidents are free to invest in local companies up to 100% of the issued capital of companies, except in cer- tain excluded and restricted sectors. Investments in the banking sector are permitted up to 60% of the equity capital (previously 49%); in insurance businesses, up to 90%; and in the financial services sector, up to 49%, except for certain services. In the case of stockbroking, this limit could be up to 100% if permission is granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Foreign investments in unit trusts are permitted up to 100%, provided the trust deed limits investment in government securities to 20%. Excluded areas of investment include the following: money lending, pawnbroking, retail trading with capital less than $1 million or its equivalent, personal services providers other than for production of goods for export and tourism, and coastal fishing. The restricted sectors are the production of goods for export under international quota restrictions; growing and primary processing of cocoa, coconuts, rice, rubber, spices, sugar, and tea; primary processing of nonrenewable natural resources; timber processing industries using local timber; deep sea fishing; water supply; construction of residential buildings; telecommunications; mass communications; mass transportation; professional services; freight; travel; shipping agencies; and education. In these sectors, investments are permitted up to 40% of the equity capital of such compa- nies. In the areas of air transportation, coastal shipping, production of energy and power, large-scale mining of gems, and lotteries, foreign investment is permitted up to a percent- age approved by the government of Sri Lanka or the relevant authorities. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of approved investments, along with any associated capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka to take up resi- dence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in fu ll assets representing their retirement funds and savings. Foreign nationals who have operated small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Controls on real estate transactions All real estate transactions are controlled. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of assets Remittances of foreign currency for life insurance premiums are not permitted. Transfer abroad by emigrants At the time of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to pay for the cost of transportation to the country of migration via the normal, direct route. A foreign exchange equivalent of up to $2,000 a person may also be purchased at the time of departure. Per- sonal effects of reasonable amounts plus jewelry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married female, SL Rs 60,000 for unmarried females, SL Rs 30,000 for female emigrants under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for male emigrants may be exported. Emigrants are also permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 a person, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million a family unit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 887 Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are required to report their daily foreign exchange position. Reporting requirements with respect to fund transfers through electronic fund transfer cards are in effect. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from their domestic currency banking units to exporters who are in a position to pay their loans in foreign exchange earnings. Development banks are also permitted to extend foreign currency loans to exporters based on their foreign credit lines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On January 29, 2001, a rupee deposit requirement of 50% of the value of forward transac- tions was introduced. On March 19, 2001, this requirement was reduced to 25%, and it was eliminated, effective July 16, 2001. Effective October 19, 2001, the statutory reserve requirement ratio on rupee deposits was reduced to 10% from 11%. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In banks by nonresidents The limit on foreign ownership of domestically incorporated commercial banks is 60%. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective January 23, 2001, the maximum positive daily net open foreign exchange position of commercial banks was set at 10% of a bank's own capital funds and reserves, based on each bank's export-import trade. On March 30, 2001, this limit was made a prudential measure. Effective March 1, 2002, this limit was increased to 15% from 10%. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 888 SRI LANKA Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Exchange arrangement January 12. The margins within which the CBSL announces the daily spot buying and selling rates of the dollar were widened to ±10%. Changes During 2001 January 23. The exchange arrangement of the rupee was reclassified to the category man- aged floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category crawling band. January 29. The maximum period during which forward sales are permitted was reduced to 180 days from 360 days, and forward transactions in foreign currency were restricted with respect to trade in goods and services. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 17. Commercial banks alone were permitted to import gold on a consignment ac- count basis, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the COE. November 12. Banks and other financial institutions were instructed to freeze all capital and assets of individuals, entities, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. December 28. Prior approval was required to maintain corresponding accounts with banks and other financial institutions that do not have a physical presence in any country, also referred to as "shell banks." April 20. Payments of interest were allowed on domestic currency accounts held by nation- als and nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka, firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka, emigrants, and foreign banks. Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments March 19. The deposit requirement applied to new forward contracts was reduced to 25% from 50%. July 16. The deposit requirement applied to new foreign contracts was eliminated. August 17. The limit on advance payment of personal imports was eliminated. October 1. The rate of the stamp duty that is levied on certain imports was reduced to 1% from 2%. December 31. The 5% duty on nearly 1,000 essential goods was removed. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 13. Subject to documentary requirements, remittances of premiums for reinsurance were permitted through authorized dealers without prior approval. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments March 13. Dollar-denominated government bonds, in which interest is paid in dollars, termed "Sri Lanka development bonds," were issued for the first time; designated agents (i.e., authorized and primary dealers) were permitted to invest in these instruments. March 13. Nonresidents were allowed to invest in Sri Lanka development bonds, and non- resident nationals were allowed to invest in any real or financial asset through special ac- counts ("rupee accounts for nonresident Sri Lankan investment"). Controls on credit operations January 23. Borrowers were required to settle credit granted to finance export orders within a period of 90 days from the date of shipment. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 19. The period of time within which borrowers are required to settle credit granted to finance export orders was increased to 120 days from 90 days. January 23. The maximum positive daily net open foreign exchange position was set at 10% of a commercial bank's own capital funds and reserves, based on its export-import trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 889 January 29. A rupee deposit requirement of 50% of the value of forward transactions was introduced. March 19. The rupee deposit requirement for forward transactions was reduced to 25% from 50% of the value of the forward transactions. March 30. The limit on commercial banks' daily net open foreign exchange position was made a prudential limit. July 16. The rupee deposit requirement on forward transactions was eliminated. October 19. The statutory reserve requirement ratio on rupee deposits was reduced to 10% from 11%. Changes During 2002 March 1. The period within which forward sales are permitted was extended to 360 days from 180 days. February 13. The Sri Lanka authorities notified the IMF that Da Afghanistan Bank and any of its offices had been withdrawn from the list of individuals and entities whose assets were frozen in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. March 16. The maximum amount of domestic currency that Sri Lanka nationals are al- lowed to bring into or take out of Sri Lanka was increased to SL Rs 5,000 from SLRs 1,000. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March 1. The maximum positive net open foreign exchange position of commercial banks was increased to 15% from 10% of a bank's capital funds and reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Since mid-1999, a de facto fixed system has been in place as the government has been in- tervening in the foreign exchange markets to maintain the exchange rate at SD 258 per $1. Effective August 1, 2001, an exchange rate band of ±1% around the indicative rate was introduced; effective October 17, 2001, this band was widened to ±1.5%. Effective November 5, 2001, bi-weekly Dutch foreign exchange auctions were introduced. The quantity of foreign exchange supplied by the Bank of Sudan (BOS) at these auctions is decided in advance by a committee chaired by the BOS governor; however, the quantity is not preannounced and varies from auction to auction, taking into account external and monetary developments. Bids are accepted within the 1.5% band, taking into consideration market trends over the preceding three days. The BOS calculates an indicative exchange rate based on the weighted average transactions between the BOS, bank and nonbank deal- ers, and individual foreign currency account holders during the previous day. The buying rate of the BOS is set at the level of the indicative exchange rate, and the selling exchange rate is defined as the buying rate plus 1%. The midpoint exchange rate is used for account- ing purposes of government transactions. There are no direct BOS interventions in the for- eign exchange market outside the auctions. Short-term fluctuations are smoothed out using open market operations in securities. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments to all countries and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free currency account or special foreign currency account, wh i le receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears There is an agreement with Egypt that has been suspended since 1992. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. 890 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 891 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically All residents, except the government, public institutions, and public sector enterprises, are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. These accounts may be credited with any means of payment without restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash deposits. Funds from these accounts may be used to make payments and transfers abroad or for any other purpose. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organizations; foreign chari- ties and aid organizations; foreign companies, foreign contractors, and the foreign person- nel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local insti- tutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to finance imports. Withdrawals may be made for purposes of travel by account holders or their families, and for local payments in Sudanese dinars. Except for airline companies, approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts of airline companies may be credited with payments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. These accounts may be opened by the same individuals and organizations as those allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Balances may be converted, subject to approval on the basis of documentary evidence. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance import deposits No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 892 SUDAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a valid commercial registration certificate, a valid tax clearance certificate, and the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of imports. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses are required only for imports under bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. Imports of some goods, such as wine, drugs, gambling instruments, and weapons, are prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and national security. Other nontariff measures Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import duty rates range from 6% to 40%. Effective January 1,2001, the maximum duty has been reduced to 40% from 60%—resulting in a reduction in the average tariff rate to below 20%—and the number of tariff bands has been reduced to three from four. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 60 days of the date of the bill of lading, Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes n.a. Yes. Licenses are required for exports under barter trade. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Investment-related payments Prior approval Amortization payments on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regarding the original amount of the foreign loans. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 893 Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Effective January 1, 2001, reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were reduced to 12% from 15%. Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement August 1. A foreign exchange auction and an exchange rate band of ±1% were introduced. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments Capital transactions October 17. The band of ±1% around the indicative exchange rate was widened to ±1.5%. November 5. Bi-weekly Dutch foreign exchange auctions were introduced. January 1. The maximum duty was reduced to 40% from 60%, resulting in a reduction of the average tariff rate to below 20%, and the number of tariff bands was reduced to three from four. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were reduced to 12% from 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 29, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname guilder. Three gold coins are legal tender. In addition to the official exchange rate, a special exchange rate of Sf 1,100 per US$1 applies to imports of milk and infant formula. The official exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Sf 2,200 per US$1. Prior to April 1, 2001, commercial banks and cambios were allowed to determine their exchange rates freely within a band of Sf 175 around the official exchange rate. Effective that date, the commercial/cambio exchange rates and the official exchange rate converged and the rate band around the official exchange rate was abolished. Since that date, the market- determined exchange rate has varied around the official exchange rate by less than ±3%. Effective December 21, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Suriname has been reclas- sified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries are not per- mitted; in general, they must be made in specified convertible currencies (Australian dollars, Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, euros, Guyana dollars, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars). Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Administration of control Suriname is a member of the CARICOM. The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) grants export and import licenses. However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. The Foreign Exchange Commission (FEC) grants licenses for most external payments other than imports of goods, approves foreign loans, and authorizes banks to deal in foreign exchange. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official These arrears are owed largely to Brazil and the United States. Some claims have been made by the Paris Club for arrears to Germany, Italy, Japan, and Spain. Arrears to Spain were settled in 2001, as were those to the Inter-American Development Bank. Arrears to Germany, Italy, and Japan have not been confirmed by the authorities. 894 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 895 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank of Suri- name—CBS—and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the FEC by sale to the CBS. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes. Dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet industrial demand, the CBS may import some gold. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate the sale of gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses is- sued by the FEC. Licenses are not normally granted, except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, how- ever, may bring in gold freely, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the CBS within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also bring in gold freely, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free, and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Persons exporting more than the equivalent of $10,000 must submit a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to the equivalent of $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the country up to the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in these accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in U.S. dollars with domes- tic banks with the prior permission of the FEC; no overdrafts are permitted. These accounts may not be credited with Suriname guilders. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 896 SURINAME Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents other than banks may open accounts in Suriname guilders freely with domes- tic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident ac- counts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required, and importers must be registered with the national chamber of commerce. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of the following are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the presi- dent of Suriname: wild animals and plants that are not indigenous to Suriname; pesticides (based on the Fund for Special Operations list of the Inter-American Development Bank); used cars and motorcycles older than five years and buses older than eight years; all chemi- cal and radioactive waste materials; and chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons. Im- ports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Yes. Goods subject to quotas include industrial explosives, weapons, fireworks, psychotropic materials not used for medicinal purposes, mercury, pesticides, herbicides, radioactive ma- terials, pets and other domestic animals, nonagricultural plants, used tires, equipment that uses or contains pentachlorphenol or parachlorotoluene gas, and products made from gold or other precious metals that are defined under the Foreign Currency Regulation of 1947. Imports of certain types of goods require permission from specific ministries operating under specific acts of parliament, i.e., the Ministries of Industry and Trade, Agriculture, and Forestry and Natural Resources. Importers must obtain certificates of importation issued by the relevant ministry for imports of animals and birds or their eggs; brood eggs; animal parts and products; psychotropic products for human medicinal purposes; medicines for humans and animals; microorganisms for research; waste products; and refrigerators, air conditioners, and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all im- ports. A statistical fee of 2% is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports of bauxite companies, and 0.5% of the c.i.f. value of other imports. Suriname applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET; as a result, the maximum external tariff rate is 20%. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Surrender requirements State-owned bauxite and petroleum companies are subject to export surrender requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Export taxes SURINAME 897 No. To ver ify prices, the MTI ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price, as reported by the exporter, is in accordance with world market prices. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. Exports require licenses issued by the MTI or the Ministry of Agriculture. Licenses are issued by these offices for exports of the following: round timber, peeled wood, and letter wood; explosives; narcotics; medicinal plants and herbs; and products made from gold or other precious metals not defined under the Foreign Currency Regulation of 1947. Export licenses for wild animals and plants are granted only by the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of bamboo wood is prohibited. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 10% of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite are subject to a statistical fee of 2% of their f.o.b. value, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of their f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits License applications must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Transfers of profits from investments made after July 31,1953, are permitted. License applications must be supported by an auditor's report and presented to the FEC for verification. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20%. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depre- ciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Information is not available for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and family maintenance. Yes. Yes. The amount of transfers that a repatriating family may take out is determined on a case-by- case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Quantitative limits Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a month for payment of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, etc.) as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 SURINAME Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange for capital account trans- actions are subject to FEC approval. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Controls on capital and money market instruments Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requires the prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the accounts of their customers. Banks are required to surrender to the CBS any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. All investments by residents require FEC permission. The FEC may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, additional transfers are permitted annually in equal amounts over a period of up to 10 years. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Transfers of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use are permitted at any time. Also permitted are transfers of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned com- panies or other forms of enterprises established by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad without FEC permission. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad The FEC may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer foreign exchange in a lump sum or in regular annual remittances representing the proceeds from the sale of assets held in Suriname. The amounts of these transfers are determined on a case-by-case basis. Authorized banks are permitted to place part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operat- ing funds. The CBS guarantees the LCs issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level. This arrangement applies to the state-controlled Landbouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Neder- land. Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts cor- responding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits The CBS does not allow banks to keep open positions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 899 Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. No. Exchange arrangement April 1. The band around the official exchange rate was eliminated. Changes During 2001 December 21. The exchange rate arrangement of Suriname was reclassified to the cate- gory conventional pegged arrangement from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Swaziland is the Swaziland lilangeni. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The lilangeni is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Swaziland is part of the CMA; no restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance with the terms and conditions applied in that market. Yes. The CBS, on behalf of the MOF, controls all external currency transactions. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Exports of the applicable travel entitlement are allowed. 900 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 901 On imports Domestic currency Imports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authority to open foreign currency accounts is delegated to authorized dealers. Held domestically Held abroad Individuals may hold foreign currency deposits of up to E 750,000 (prior to May 1, 2001, E 400,000) with local authorized dealers. Individuals may hold foreign currency deposits abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000 (prior to May 1, 2001, E 400,000). Companies must obtain approval and may hold only the needed working balances. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion from these accounts is subject to exchange control approval. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted. Authority to open foreign currency accounts is delegated to authorized dealers. Yes. Yes. Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted equity securities in Swaziland and in other investments that have CBS approval. Effective July 1, 2001, the approval requirement for investments in quoted companies was eliminated, but prior registration of the equity status is still required. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Yes. Advance payment requirements Advance payments are limited to 33.33% of the ex-factory cost of the goods. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Permits are required to import goods on the negative list, and these permits entitle the holders to purchase foreign exchange required to make import payments. Import permits are required for goods on the negative list. Swaziland is a member of the SACU, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa, including goods originating outside the customs union, do not require licenses. Imports from countries outside the customs union require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payment procedures. Swaziland applies the customs tariff system of the SACU on imports from outside the customs union. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 902 SWAZILAND State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Declaration is required within 30 days from the date of accrual. No. Documentation requirements Contract notes are required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports are subject to licensing. For goods shipped to members of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized dealers. Trade-related payments Documentary evidence confirming the amount due must be produced. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization loans or depreciation of di- rect investments. Authority to transfer dividends, profits, and other income is delegated to authorized dealers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence confirming the amount due must be produced. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits on foreign exchange purchases by permanent residents for business and holiday travel are E 140,000 an adult a year and E 45,000 a child under 12 years a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Clearance from the CBS is required for any agreements or amendments in respect of technical consulting, management, professional, and royalty fees. Effective March 1, 2001, study allowances for students in non-CMA countries were in- creased to E 140,000 a year for single students and E 280,000 a year for married students accompanied by their spouse from E 130,000 and E 260,000, respectively. On that same date, travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation periods were increased to E 45,000 a year for single students and E 90,000 a year for married stu- dents accompanied by their spouse from E 40,000 and E 80,000, respectively. Family maintenance allowance is limited to E 7,000 per month. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence must be produced. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence substantiating the income earned must be produced. Credit card use abroad Prior approval To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of under- taking before departure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 903 Quantitative limits Residents may use up to 100% of the approved travel facility. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Capital Transactions All inward capital transfers, except for equity investments by nonresidents, require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented to facilitate the subsequent repatria- tion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. Inward payments toward a loan and investments in unquoted companies required CBS approval until May 1,2001. Effective that date, CBS approval is required only for registra- tion of equity status prior to investment. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be processed through normal banking channels either directly in foreign currency or through local currency nonresident accounts with the CMA. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Balances in blocked accounts for emigrants may be invested in quoted securities without prior CBS approval or in other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Other nonresidents may freely effect these transactions as well. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no specific controls; however, the underlying documentation must note that a nonresident is effecting the transaction in order to distinguish nonresidents' certificates from those of residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are restricted to private persons' investment entitlements. Effective May 1, 2001, the limit on purchases by a resident noncorporate individual was increased to the equivalent of E 750,000 from the equivalent of E 400,000. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 904 SWAZILAND Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments All transactions in derivatives and other investments are controlled. Controls on credit operations All credit operations are controlled. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is not allowed. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment These transactions are allowed, provided they relate to successful tenders for the supply of goods and technical services. These transactions are allowed, provided the bank is satisfied that payment from a foreign guarantor will be received in accordance with the exchange control rulings, should it be required to effect a payment under the guarantee. Private individuals are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000 (prior to May 1, 2001, E 400,000). Applications by corporate entities abroad require approval, which is granted on merit. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the prior approval of the CBS. Private individuals may invest in real estate within the SADC region with prior CBS approval. Purchases by nonresidents are subject to approval. Applicants must go through the Land Speculation Board to determine if there is effective local demand. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior CBS approval. Controls on personal capital transactions All personal capital transfers are controlled. Private individuals are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000 (prior to May 1, 2001, E 400,000). Loans These transactions require prior CBS approval. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Annual limit of E 25,000 (prior to March 1, 2001, E 20,000) applies to gift transfers. Effective May 1, 2001, the limit of E 500,000 on legacies and distribution of estate was removed, but documentary proof is required. To residents from nonresidents Documentary evidence for these transactions must be produced. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of assets Controls apply to funds drawn from blocked accounts. Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective May 1, 2001, the settling-in allowance for emigrants was increased to E 200,000 a single person or E 400,000 a family from E 125,000 and E 250,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 905 Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Transfers of casino, gambling, and lottery winnings by nonresidents may be effected through authorized dealers upon presentation of documentary evidence. Residents are not allowed to participate in lotteries organized abroad. Effective February 21, 2001, the mechanism for asset swap was terminated. Borrowing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad without prior approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The ratio is 4% of a bank's total domestic public liabilities excluding any balances for which the bank is liable to any financial institution. The ratio is 10% and 15% of total public liabilities for development banks and commercial banks, respectively. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Institutional investors are allowed to invest abroad 15% of their assets in Swaziland by way of asset swaps after obtaining CBS approval. No. Changes During 2001 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers May 1. The maximum amount that an individual is allowed to hold in foreign currency accounts domestically or abroad was raised to E 750,000 from E 400,000. July L The approval requirement for investments in quoted companies was eliminated, although prior registration of the equity status remains required. March 1. Study allowances for students in non-CMA countries were increased to E 140,000 a year for single students and E 280,000 a year for married students accompanied by their spouse from E 130,000 and E 260,000, respectively; and travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation periods were increased to E 45,000 a year ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 906 SWAZILAND Capital transactions for single students and E 90,000 a year for married students accompanied by their spouse from E 40,000 and E 80,000, respectively. May I. Inward payments toward investments in unquoted companies no longer required CBS approval, but CBS approval was required for registration of equity status prior to investment. Controls on capital and money market instruments May L The limit on purchases and sales abroad of domestic bonds or other debt securities by a resident noncorporate individual was increased to the equivalent of E 750,000 from the equivalent of E 400,000. Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital movements May 1. The limit on investments abroad by a resident private individual was increased to the equivalent of E 750,000 from the equivalent of E 400,000. March L The annual limit on gift transfers was increased to E 25,000 from E 20,000. May L The settling-in allowance for emigrants was increased to E 200,000 a single person or E 400,000 a family from E 125,000 and E 250,000, respectively. May L The limit of E 500,000 on legacies and distribution of estate to nonresidents was removed, but documentary proof was required. February 21. The mechanism for asset swap by commercial banks was terminated. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. The exchange rate of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Yes. Sveriges Riksbank —the central bank—and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. Financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited; restrictions are imposed on some trans- actions with Angola; and funds and other financial assets in respect of the Taliban (the Islamic State of Afghanistan) are frozen. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. 907 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 908 SWEDEN Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and trans- fers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries are subject to licensing for surveil- lance purposes. Imports of most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than Turkey, EFTA members, and countries that are party to the EEA, are subject to licensing for surveillance purposes (between January 1,2001, and January 17,2002, this applied only to imports of most iron and steel products from the Czech Republic, Ka- zakhstan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slo- vak Republic, and Ukraine). Shoes from Vietnam and certain goods from China, such as bicycles, brushes, fireworks, gloves, and toys, are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. The importation of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries is subject to quotas. Agri- cultural and fishery products are also subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel prod- ucts from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine are also subject to quotas, as are imports of porcelain and shoes from China. Imports from Iraq are prohibited due to UN sanctions. Import restrictions apply to certain categories of food, as well as narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive materials, and other items. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq and Angola are prohibited due to UN sanctions, w i th a few exceptions. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 909 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls apply only to shares and other securities of a participatory nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment in fishing and civil aviation. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. No. No. Laws on inward investment and establishment apply to investment in fishing, civil aviation, and transport and communications. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits No. Yes. For prudential reasons, general guidelines exist for credit institutions' and securities firms' net positions in foreign currencies. These guidelines stipulate limits both on positions in a single currency—15% of the capital base—and on the total net position of all currencies— 30% of the capital base. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 SWEDEN Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws The same provisions apply as for open foreign exchange position limits. No. Changes During 2001 Imports and import payments January 1. The list of countries subject to surveillance measures for iron and steel products was limited to include only the Czech Republic, Kazakhstan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Russia, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine. Changes During 2002 Imports and import payments January 18. Licensing for surveillance purposes of imports of most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than Turkey, EFTA members, and countries that are party to the EEA, was reintroduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. No. No. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Exchange restrictions are imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Iraq, the UNITA movement in Angola and specific individuals asso- ciated therewith, specific individuals associated with the government of Myanmar, specific individuals associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the Taliban and specific individuals associated therewith. On November 7 and Decem- ber 12, 2001, the provisions regarding restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola and the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and specific persons associated therewith were amended. On January 29, 2002, the provisions regarding restric- tions against the Taliban and specific individuals associated therewith were amended. In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange restrictions are imposed in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Licenses are not required for imports or exports of gold or gold bullion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 911 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Nonresident Accounts 912 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Licenses are required mostly for agricultural products. Import controls apply only for weapons and some defense-sensitive products, and in accordance with UN restrictions. In general, customs duties are levied based on the weight of goods instead of their value. On industrial goods, import tariffs are in general very low. On agricultural goods that are also produced in Switzerland, they are higher. In the frame of the GATT-Uruguay Round, all quantitative restrictions and measures having equivalent effect concerning agricultural products were transformed into tariffs. In order to maintain market access opportunities prevailing in 1986-88, 28 tariff rate quotas were created for specific agricultural goods (fruits, vegetables, meats, wines, etc.). State monopolies apply to imports of alcohol of 80 proof and above and salt. Effective July 1, 2001, the law on the state monopoly for imports of wheat flour was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas A system of general and individual licenses applies to controlled exports. Exports of weapons, dual-use goods for the production of conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction are controlled (approval is required). Exports are prohibited in accordance with UN restrictions. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 913 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB and may be lead-managed only by a bank or a securities dealer domiciled in either Switzerland or Liechtenstein. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In case of major disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a permit requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal government. No. No. The overall limit on investments in foreign currencies by life and nonlife insurance com- panies is 30%, with limits for foreign equities, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5% of the total portfolio, respectively. These provisions also apply to pension funds, but they are not binding in respect of pension funds that have prudential portfolio management practices. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 914 SWITZERLAND Changes During 2001 Arrangements for payments and receipts November 7. The restrictions on payments and transfers in respect to the UNITA movement in Angola and specific individuals associated therewith were amended. December 12. The restrictions on payments and transfers in respect to specific individuals associated with the former government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were amended. Imports and import payments July 1. The law on the state monopoly for imports of wheat flour was abolished. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 29. The restrictions on payments and transfers in respect to the Taliban and spe- cific individuals associated therewith were amended. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The official exchange rates are (1) the legally designated official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1 that applies to the repayment of loans and interest arising from bilateral payments agreements; (2) the budget accounting rate of LS 46.45/46.50 per $1 (also known as the government fee rate) that applies to public sector exports of petroleum, all government imports (including essential subsidized products and invisibles), and repayment of loans and interest not related to bilateral payments agreements; and (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 46.00/46.50 per $1 that applies to the following transactions: (i) travel allowances; (ii) tourism expenses; (iii) student allowances; (iv) remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange; (v) all public sector enterprises' foreign exchange transactions; (vi) earnings of staff of UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; and (vii) domestic expenses of foreign oil companies. Effective January 15, 2001, the Commercial Bank of Syria (ComBS) intro- duced a free market exchange rate that changes daily. The new exchange rate (the "ex- change rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions"), which reflects de- velopments in the free market exchange rates in Beirut, Lebanon, and Amman, Jordan, applies to certain foreign currency transactions, including medical expenses; the 25% of exports proceeds surrendered by the private sector; and, effective November 19, 2001, a few public sector invisible transactions. The unofficial rates are (1) the free market rate and (2) the "export proceeds" rate, which is market-determined and applies to goods that may be imported only with foreign exchange earned through exports. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to import goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in this market. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The official rates are pegged to the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The Exchange Office (EO) prescribes the currencies that may be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Pre- scription of currency requirements is not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. With few exceptions, non-Syrians visiting the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative There are agreements with Russia and Sri Lanka. 915 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Administration of control The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade (MOEFT) determines policy with regard to imports and exports and issues import licenses. The EO issues exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are subject to import licensing. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents traveling abroad may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip unless they are travel- ing to Jordan or Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a for- eign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 into foreign exchange, provided that the banknotes are less than the amounts ini- tially exchanged through the ComBS during a period not exceeding two months before the date of departure. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $3,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Deposits may be transferred to other resident accounts on condition that their accounts have sources from abroad. Deposits in the form of banknotes may only be withdrawn in that form, unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, and other similar noncommercial purposes. Deposits for a term of 30 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Held domestically Yes. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Approval is granted if the resident has economic activities abroad. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts After obtaining approval, nonresidents may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the ComBS for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies through payment conventions. Approval is required to open these accounts. After obtaining approval, these accounts may be credited with the proceeds in foreign cur- rencies sold to the authorized banks and with other receipts in foreign currencies; they may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Convertible into foreign currency No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 917 Blocked accounts Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments The foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon sub- mission of documentation of their import requirements. When foreign exchange is not made available, private imports must be financed with the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the ComBS at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of fi- nancing. A number of imports may only be imported using foreign exchange generated through exports. A non-interest bearing advance deposit is required for public sector imports for an amount equal to 100% of the value of the imports. Private sector imports are not subject to this requirement if they are financed from abroad. If the ComBS requires an LC, an import deposit is required in the amount of 100% of the value of the import plus a 3% fee. Private importers may choose to import products specified on the permitted list by opening LCs at the ComBS. All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 1,000 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing. A fee ranging from LS 104 to LS 454 is charged upon the issuance of an import license. The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import includes certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. Imports must come directly from the country of origin, but the MOEFT has the authority to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. There is a general list of goods that may not be imported from non-Arab countries. A sepa- rate list of prohibited imports from member countries of the Arab Free Trade Area includes only goods prohibited for health, safety, religious, or environmental reasons. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods imported directly from the country of origin. Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. An import surcharge of 2% is applied to all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at dif- ferent exchange rates (LS 11.25, LS 23, and LS 46.50 per $1), according to the categories of goods, while import tariffs range up to 200%. All previous special levies on imports have been replaced by a unified import surcharge ranging from 6% to 35%. Syrian nation- als working abroad are allowed import exemptions on luxury items valued between $500 and $7,000. Many basic commodities (such as paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain private sector importers. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters are required to repatriate and surrender export proceeds within six months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within nine months from the date of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 918 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC shipment to any other country. These periods may be extended to nine months for exports to Arab countries and twelve months for exports to other countries, after the approval of the EO, which is granted upon presentation of a proof of need. Private sector exporters of manufactured goods are required to surrender 25% of their export proceeds to the ComBS at the exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions (prior to August 21, 2001, at the free market rate), and to retain the remainder to finance permitted imports. Public sector enterprises may retain 100% of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts. Private sector exporters of fruits and vegetables may retain 100% of the proceeds. Financing requirements The ComBS may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and their derivatives are made by the gov- ernment organizations dealing in cereals and cotton. Petroleum product exports are han- dled by the state Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Yes. Products of agricultural origin are subject to the agricultural production tax of 12.5% ad valorem. The processed products that qualify for tax reimbursement include dried, frozen, and processed fruits and vegetables; cotton, cotton seeds, ginned cotton, cotton yarn, cotton wool, cotton clothing, and cotton seed oil; olive oil; and textiles. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Yes. Remittances of profit and dividends must be authorized by the EO upon proof of payment of income tax. Profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the investment law may be repatriated freely. Information is not available on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to $3,000 and LS 2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Leba- non who are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian banknotes. On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to this tax. Yes. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health and for studies abroad by the Ministry of Higher Education. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 919 Quantitative limits Up to 60% of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syr- ian Arab Republic and 50% of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and interna- tional missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected with foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Effective November 19, 2001, proceeds from a few transactions by the public sector and those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the exchange rate in neighbor- ing countries for noncommercial transactions. Likewise, Syrian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and convert a minimum of 25% of each year's earnings received in foreign exchange at the exchange rate in neighbor- ing countries for noncommercial transactions. Previously, these transactions were effected at the rate in neighboring countries. All Syrian employees working abroad are also subject to an annual tax of $50-700, depending on their profession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equivalent funds are surrendered at the budget accounting rate. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Exports of capital require the approval of the EO. There is no market in medium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to supplement their capital base. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The only instruments available in the Syrian Arab Republic are investment bonds issued by the Popular Credit Bank (PCB) as agent of the government. The bonds, which carry an interest rate of 9% a year, have 10-year maturity but have a short-term effective holding period as they are redeemable after three to six months. They may only be purchased by nonbank Syrian residents and by the PCB itself. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities These instruments do not exist in the Syrian Arab Republic. Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 920 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Syrian Arab Republic provides special facilities for the investment of funds of im- migrants and of nationals of Arab states, including a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Projects with minimum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including exemption from customs duties of imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed companies with at least 25% pub- lic participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years and private companies are exempted for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75% of proceeds from exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guarantee agreements with France, Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Companies li- censed under the investment law are allowed to exchange into local currency at the rate in neighboring countries a part of their assets, duly deposited at Syrian banks, to cover basic needs and local liabilities. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents and foreign nationals may acquire real estate only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of property at the authorized local bank. Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds are required to be held in a blocked account and repatriated gradually, Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions On April 16, 2001, a banking law came into effect, permitting the establishment of private banks and introducing banking secrecy. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Yes. Yes. Foreign banks are allowed to operate in free economic zones. Branches of foreign banks in free zones must have a minimum capitalization of the equivalent of $10 million in foreign exchange and their services may only be available to companies set up in the free zone. In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 921 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Exports and export proceeds January 15. The ComBS introduced a free market exchange rate, entitled the exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions, which is applied to non- commercial-related transactions of tourist facilities. November 19. The exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions became applicable to a few invisible transactions of the public sector. August 21. The exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions became applicable to 25% of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers November 19. The exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions became applicable to a few invisible transactions of the public sector. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 16. A new banking law permitting the establishment of private banks and introducing banking secrecy came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik somoni. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Tajik somoni is determined on the basis of supply and demand. The National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) quotes a daily official exchange rate based on a weighted average of the exchange rates in the interbank market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in somoni. Residents and nonresidents may not use foreign exchange for domestic transactions, except for special cases as defined by the authorities. Commer- cial transactions with nonresidents must be conducted through correspondent accounts maintained either by authorized commercial banks or by the NBT. Yes. Yes. There are inoperative agreements with the CIS countries, and negotiations for settlement of balances have been concluded. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade is allowed only for aluminum. Administration of control The NBT (1) acts as nonexclusive agent for the Republic of Tajikistan in the administration of foreign exchange controls; (2) issues licenses to commercial banks to conduct banking operations and foreign currency operations; (3) is exclusively responsible for the supervi- sion and regulation of financial institutions; (4) manages official foreign exchange reserves; and (5) formulates basic foreign exchange policy. The MOF registers foreign investors for inward direct investment. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Trade in gold is regulated by the Committee on Precious Metals. Controls on external trade Joint ventures that extract gold are subject to controls. 922 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts TAJIKISTAN 923 Exports of domestic currency are allowed freely without customs regulations. Foreign exchange may be exported freely up to $2,000 or its equivalent. For any amount above this limit, documents proving the legality of the exports must be submitted. Imports are permitted, provided customs rules are observed. Resident Accounts Yes. These accounts are permitted under the Law on Foreign Currency Control. However, the opening of these accounts requires authorization from the NBT. Nonresident Accounts n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licensing applies to tobacco and tobacco products. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear materials is prohibited. No. Licenses with quotas apply to imports of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products. Other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alumina is exempt from duty. Customs duties are collected on alcohol and cigarette im- ports in fixed amounts, depending on the quantity of goods imported (liters and units). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 924 TAJIKISTAN State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds may be either held by exporters in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks or sold in the interbank market. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements For exports of cotton, aluminum, and tobacco, a 100% advance payment is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Licenses are required for the preparation, processing, and export of tobacco and tobacco products. Licenses with quotas apply to exports and purchases of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products. Effective January 1,2001, a 15% sales tax on cotton fiber exports and a 1% sales tax on aluminum exports are in effect (previously 20% and 3%, respectively). Effective January 1, 2002, the sales tax on cotton fiber was reduced to 10%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required for the purchase of 10% of shares. NET notification is required for the purchase of over 5% of shares of banks, while NBT approval is required for the purchase of over 20%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Only juridical persons may issue these instruments; registration with the MOF and approval of the NBT are required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 925 Bonds or other debt securities Registration with the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales by nonresidents are permitted. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents If the security is issued in foreign currency, NBT approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are no controls for loans of up to a 120-day maturity. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls for loans of up to a 180-day maturity. Financial credits There are no controls for loans of up to a 180-day maturity. For maturities over 180 days, NBT approval is required. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents There are no controls on facilities with maturities of up to 180 days. For those with maturi- ties over 180 days, NBT approval is required. If a bank gives a guarantee, it is required to reserve with the NBT an amount equivalent to the amount of the extended guarantee. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBT approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 TAJIKISTAN Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only authorized foreign exchange banks may borrow from abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. These securities do not exist in Tajikistan. The reserve requirement is 20%. The limit is 20% of capital. Yes. The quota for participation of foreign capital in the banking sector is up to 35%. Effective June 30, 2001, this limit is 40% (previously 35%). Open foreign exchange position limits The aggregate open long and short positions are limited to 30% and 10% of the bank's capital, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Changes During 2001 January 1. The tax rates for cotton fiber and aluminum exports were reduced to 15% from 20% and 1% from 3%, respectively. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 30. The quota for participation of foreign capital in the banking sector was increased to a maximum of 40% from 35%. Exports and export proceeds January 1. The sales tax on cotton fiber was reduced to 10% from 15%. Changes During 2002 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the shilling is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tan- zania (BOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by transitory factors. No. No. Authorized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Payment in domestic currency to a nonresident requires BOT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is an agreement with Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the SADC and the EAC. There are agreements with Kenya and Uganda. The Foreign Exchange Act vests power in the BOT to administer and manage exchange transactions both on the mainland and in Zanzibar. The BOT delegates authority to all li- censed banks to make payments abroad. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. 927 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 928 Private TANZANIA n.r. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Only authorized persons may buy, borrow, sell, lend, and hold or otherwise deal in gold coins and gold bullion outside Tanzania. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents are allowed to export domestic currency for numismatic purposes. Following a currency convertibility agreement reached with Uganda and Kenya, residents may carry any amount of currency between the three countries. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Holding of foreign accounts is allowed for money acquired outside Tanzania; otherwise, operations of offshore foreign currency accounts by individual residents are still subject to restrictions. However, in the case of resident banks and financial institutions, there are no restrictions on the operation of accounts with overseas financial institutions (foreign correspondent banks). Any authorized dealer bank may operate foreign currency accounts abroad in its name on behalf of its customers. Accounts of residents have to be reported to the BOT. Yes. n.a. These accounts are exceptionally reserved for UN-related organizations. Nonresident Accounts Yes. Nonresident accounts are maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tanzania; such accounts are to be closed upon leaving the country. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts An authorized bank's approval is required when making any payment or placing any sum to the credit of nonresidents. The bank may direct the sum payable or to be paid or credited to a non-interest bearing blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Authorized dealers are permitted to handle cases of advance payments. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The release of foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 requires invoices, shipping documents, a single bill of entry form, and a clean report of findings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 929 Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection A clean report of findings is necessary for import payments subject to preshipment inspec- tion. Imports of goods exceeding $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Yes. Effective February 28, 2001, a licensing requirement was imposed on imports of sugar and tires. To protect certain industries from unfair competition, permits are required to import tires and sugar. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, at four rates, of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. Low tariffs are also charged on imports of machinery. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as well as to religious, educational, and welfare institutions. Zero rates are applicable to strategic and lead investment sectors. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Requirements are in place for the repatriation of export proceeds in foreign currency by exporters and for reporting by banking institutions to the EOT of delinquent exporters beyond time allowed. n.r. Yes. n.r. Yes. n.r. As an exception to the general rule, licenses from the respective ministries are required for the exportation from the mainland for a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. n.r. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Presentation of relevant documentary evidence at the time of buying the foreign exchange is required. The HOT examines these documents. The release of foreign exchange for import payments requires invoices, shipping docu- ments, a clean report of findings from an authorized inspection firm, and a single bill of entry form. For trade-related payments exceeding $5,000, proper documentation, such as invoices, shipping documents, and a clean report of findings, is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 930 TANZANIA Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Remittances of portfolio and dividends require audited reports and authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes. For travel allowances exceeding $10,000, the traveler has to produce documents certifying that the trip will last more than 40 days. Personal payments Proper documentation from the relevant educational or medical institution is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona fide tests for payment of medical costs. Foreign workers' wages Foreign workers are obliged to document the transfer with contracts and permits and state the reason for remittance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Applicants for payment of fees related to consultancy, management, and royalty agree- ments need to fiirnish contractual documents duly executed by parties thereto, relevant invoice/fees notes, and tax clearances from the Tanzania Revenue Authority certifying that tax obligations have been settled. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are bona fide tests for certain other payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Controls on capital transactions All transfers of foreign currency funds from residents to nonresidents require specific approval from the HOT. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Residents may acquire from abroad and sell or issue abroad any security or coupon on which capital, dividends, or interest are payable in foreign currency, provided that the security has been funded exclusively by externally acquired funds. The acquisition must be reported to the BOT for statistical purposes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Participation of nonresidents in the domestic money and capital markets is restricted. Purchase abroad by residents Shares issued abroad may be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired with externally generated funds. These purchases have to be reported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase and redemption must be done in local currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 931 On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on all these transactions. No BOT approval is required with respect to applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external financing facilities, and deferred payment arrangements exceeding 365 days. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits BOT approval is required with respect to the receipt of foreign currency by residents and/or receipt of payment in the currency of Tanzania from nonresidents. Any person resident in Tanzania who has a right to receive foreign currency from a nonresident has to comply with directives given by the BOT to ensure the receipt of such foreign currency or such payment. By residents to nonresidents Realization of export proceeds beyond 180 days requires approval by a commercial bank. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities There are no controls on assurances obtained outside Tanzania, except that the transfer should be externally funded. By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment There are controls in place for the provision of sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to nonresident entities, or transfer of funds to service these facilities. Outward direct investment Investments require BOT approval. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions All foreign direct investment must be approved by the Investment Promotion Center; some areas are reserved for investment by the public sector, and certain other areas are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Commercial banks are permitted to authorize access to foreign currency facilities for residents with respect to outward capital account payments under direct investment as repatriation of capital and income to foreign shareholders. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be repatriated, plus authenticated documents from the Tanzania Revenue Authority confirming payment of all relevant taxes. Any person who owns immovable property in Tanzania may assign or transfer such prop- erty to beneficiaries abroad provided that the property was acquired through external re- sources subject to any laws in force in Tanzania. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require BOT approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 932 TANZANIA Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Debt servicing-related remittances by residents require the submission of the relevant con- tract as approved by a commercial bank together with creditors' demand notes to that ef- fect. Commercial banks have to furnish the BOT with monthly reports on loans serviced. To residents from nonresidents BOT approval is required for maturities longer than one year. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Documentary requirements are in effect. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to external debt management regulations. Otherwise, banks and financial institutions are allowed to operate credit lines with correspondents. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The BOT requires that all statutory reserves be held in local currency and allows banks' averaging of daily positions and the counting of half their vault cash toward meeting the requirement. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents n.r. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.r. Imports and import payments February 28. A licensing requirement was imposed on imports of sugar and tires. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4,1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Thailand is the Thai bant. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the bant is determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The baht-dollar reference exchange rate is announced daily, based on the average exchange rate of the previous day. However, in light of evi- dence that the authorities are indirectly intervening in the foreign exchange market as con- ditions require, effective June 30,2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Thailand was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. No. No. Financial institutions may engage in spot foreign exchange market transactions with non- residents in local currency. Forward transactions need to be related to the underlying trade and financial transactions. In the case of no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai bant credit facilities, including swap and forward exchange contracts ob- tained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined, are subject to a maximum outstanding limit of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Bant credit facilities provided by resident banks to nonresidents by way of derivatives must be used for domestic trade or investment activities. For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign exchange for domestic payments. Thailand is a member of ASEAN. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) administers exchange controls on behalf of the MOF, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). On January 18, 2002, the Thai authorities notified the IMF that the BOT had, on Octo- ber 18 and December 27, 2001, instructed banks and other financial institutions in Thai- land to freeze any movements of capital and assets of certain individuals, terrorists, and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373. 933 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 934 THAILAND In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and domestically negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Controls on external trade Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad and, upon depositing, the depositors must submit the documents showing their obligations to pay in foreign currency to persons residing abroad, resident authorized banks, the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, or the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand within three months of the date of deposit, and they may deposit amounts not exceeding their obligations. The total outstanding balances in all accounts should not exceed the equivalents of $5 million for a juridical person and $500,000 for a natural person. Held abroad Approval is required if deposits are made with funds of domestic origin, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval is required for nonresidents to sell foreign currencies for bant for same day delivery (value same day) and for next day delivery (value next day). Approval required Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if bant proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 935 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose value exceeds B 500,000 when submitting import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Most goods may be freely imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Imports of some goods are prohibited for security or social reasons. Milk producers are required to purchase locally produced milk in some quantity when they import skimmed milk into Thailand. Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on certain products. Tariff rates between zero and 5% apply to two-thirds of the tariff lines for goods imported from AFTA countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be repatriated immediately after payment is received and within 120 days from the date of export. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within seven days of receipt. Foreign exchange earners are allowed to deposit their foreign exchange in their foreign currency accounts only if they have obligations to pay out such amounts to nonresi- dents abroad within three months of the deposit date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a foreign exchange transaction form for transactions exceeding B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and textile products are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to higher ad valorem or specific duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions of more than $5,000 or the equivalent. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized banks in Thailand within seven days of receipt. Travelers pass- ing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and international organizations are exempted from this requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 936 THAILAND Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of securities is under the jurisdiction of the Securities Exchange Commis- sion (SEC). Under the securities law, different rules and regulations apply to capital market securities (those with a maturity of more than one year) and short-term money market secu- rities (those debt securities with a maturity of not more than one year). The regulations im- posed on capital market securities are generally stricter than those imposed on short-term money market securities. Companies wishing to issue securities to the public need approval from the EOT and the SEC. Foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of the total amount of shares sold in locally incorporated banks, finance companies, credit finance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an individual and related family members may not exceed 5% of a bank's total amount of shares sold and 10% of that of finance compa- nies and credit foncier companies. Foreign equity participation is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. Foreign investors are allowed to hold more than 49% of the total shares sold in local financial institutions for up to 10 years, after which the amount of shares will be grandfathered, and the nonresidents will not be allowed to purchase new shares until the ratio of shares held by them is brought down to 49%. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required under the regulations governing domestic issuance. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the approval of the MOF, BOT, and SEC. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The potential issuer must submit an application for approval to the SEC, and permission will be granted if the issuer can prove that the security will be pooled exclusively on pri- mary or secondary markets abroad. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. However, finance companies are allowed to issue nego- tiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) and bills of exchange in foreign currency with more than a one-year maturity for sale to the public abroad or for sale to institutions that are au- thorized to operate in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds associated with these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. There are no controls on the purchase of securities offered by local fund management companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the approval of the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The launching of funds requires approval from the SEC, both locally and abroad, and only local fund management companies are allowed to issue this instrument. In addition, funds managed by local firms will be deemed to have Thai nationality regardless of the national- ity of the majority of the unit holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment THAILAND 937 In cases where there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities, including swap and forward exchange contracts obtained by a non- resident from all domestic financial institutions combined, are subject to a maximum out- standing limit of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative of- fices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. The issuance of warrants or equity-related instruments and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria are based on the soundness of the underlying stock. There is no discriminatory practice against nonresidents for participating in the financial market. The purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. The sale of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. In cases where there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined are subject to a maximum outstanding limit of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Prior to September 24, 2001, when these regulations were liberal- ized, baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or without underlying transactions or collateral were prohibited, except that lending to natural persons was allowed under spe- cific conditions. Effective that date, financial institutions are allowed to extend direct loans in That baht with collateral to nonresident natural persons permitted to work in Thailand for not less than one year. Also effective that date, financial institutions may issue letters of guarantee to nonresidents when there is a stand-by LC from a financial institution abroad. Effective December 28, 2001, direct loans in Thai baht may be made to entities in neighboring countries (i.e., Cambodia, southern parts of China, the Lao People's Democ- ratic Republic, Myanmar, and Vietnam) under specified conditions and with prior BOT approval. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred payments, bilateral netting, or open accounts. Most payments are settled within 120 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits, subject to the rule of net for- eign exchange position. Without approval from the BOT, residents may only grant loans of up to $10 million (or the equivalent) a year to their affiliated companies, provided that they own at least 25% of total shares in the company. There is no control on these credits. Repayment of financial credits to nonresidents may be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay nonresidents in foreign currency and the proceeds of credit are repatriated. Resident banks are allowed to guarantee transactions by nonresidents when undertaking bids or performance bonds to government agencies, state enterprises, or other legal persons in Thailand. However, resident banks must be provided with stand-by LCs from financial institutions abroad as collateral of nonresidents (back-to-back guarantee). Investments exceeding $10 million (or the equivalent) a year require BOT approval. Foreign capital may be brought into the country without restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within seven days of receipt. Controls on liquidation of direct investment All proceeds may be repatriated without restriction upon submission of supporting evidence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 938 THAILAND Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Approval of the BOT is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of property is not allowed with funds that originate from abroad. The foreign ownership limit for condominiums is 40% of the total value. Ownership of property by foreign entities with majority shareholding in Thai financial institutions is, at present, gov- erned by the Commercial Banking Act or the Act on the Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Bant lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or without underlying transactions or collateral is prohibited, except that lending to natural persons is allowed under specified conditions and lending to entities in neighboring countries requires BOT approval. Thai residents are allowed to send up to the equivalent of $100,000 to relatives abroad who hold permanent resident permits without approval from the BOT. Thai emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad up to $1 m i l l ion (or the equivalent) a year without BOT approval. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is illegal in Thailand. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange In cases where there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined are subject to a maximum outstanding limit of B 50 m i l l ion. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or without under- lying transactions or collateral is prohibited, except that lending to natural persons is al- lowed under specified conditions and lending to entities in neighboring countries requires BOT approval. Government financial institutions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not al- lowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency without restriction. Commercial lending denominated in foreign currencies to particular industries may be par- tially (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fu l ly repaid as exchange rate risk is heightened. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Commercial banks may purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign ex- change. Finance companies without foreign exchange licenses are required to obtain BOT permission for purchases of locally issued securities in foreign exchange. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Commercial banks are required to maintain at least 6% of their nonresident foreign ex- change deposits in the form of (1) nonremunerated balance at the BOT (at least 2%); (2) vault cash (at most 2.5%); and (3) eligible securities (the rest). Finance and securities companies are not allowed to accept foreign exchange deposits. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company (including pub- lic companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of their capital fund. Banks may seek approval to hold shares above the 10% l im it in the following cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that operate as finan- cial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits THAILAND 939 manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are benefi- cial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Foreign investors may invest in Thai commercial banks up to 25% of the total amount of shares sold. Foreign investors may be allowed, on a case-by-case basis, to hold up to 100% of shares sold in commercial banks, finance companies, and credit foncier companies for a period of 10 years, which will be grandfathered. However, after the 10-year period, they will not be allowed to purchase additional shares unless their holding is less than 49% of the total amount of shares sold. The regulation on net foreign exchange exposure limits allows commercial banks to maintain positions in terms of their first-tier capital of no more than 15% oversold or overbought. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Approval of the BOT is required. Mutual funds and provident funds have to invest their total portfolio in the domestic mar- ket. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the fund may be invested in equity and debenture issued by juridical persons incorporated under the ASEAN Agreement or the United Nations' Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific Agreement to specifically operate reinsurance business; and (2) the funds may be invested in equity issued by nonresident juridical persons other than specified in (1) with approval from the authorities, and by using the surplus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. Portfolio investment of life and nonlife insurance companies is governed by the acts and notifications of the MOC. The criteria are as follows: (1) total investment in debenture and equity should not exceed 30% of the company's assets; (2) investment in unit trusts should not exceed 20% of total assets; (3) rediscount of state enterprise bonds should not exceed 20% of total assets; and (4) investment in securities abroad must not exceed 5% of total assets and should have approval from the appropriate authority. The criteria for investment of provident funds are as follows: (1) investment of at least 60% in government bonds, state enterprise bonds, deposits at commercial banks, and debt instruments issued by commercial banks; and (2) investment of not more than 40% in promissory notes of finance companies, stocks, and other debt instruments. In addition, the ceiling on investment in stocks is 25% of the portfolio, and that on any single stock is 5% of the portfolio. Under the Securities Act, there are no controls on nonresidents having equity participation in Thai security companies. However, a 50% limit on a nonresident's equity participation in any company is imposed. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai secu- rities market in the form of representative offices whose roles are limited to providing re- search material for their parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter into joint partnership with Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. Changes During 2001 June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Thailand was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. September 24. Financial institutions were allowed to extend direct loans in Thai baht with collateral to nonresident natural persons permitted to work in Thailand for not less than one year. Further, financial institutions were allowed to issue letters of guarantee to non- residents when there is a stand-by LC from a financial institution abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 940 THAILAND December 28. Direct loans in Thai baht were allowed to be made to entities in neighboring countries (i.e., Cambodia, southern parts of China, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Myanmar, and Vietnam) under specified conditions and with prior EOT approval. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 18. The Thai authorities notified the IMF that the HOT had, on October 18 and December 27, 2001, instructed banks and other financial institutions in Thailand to freeze any movements of capital and assets of certain individuals, terrorists, and terrorist organiza- tions pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 and 1373. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buying and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Togo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CEMAC members and the Comoros) are mainly made in euros, but they may also be made in other foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be conducted freely. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing arrangement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO relate to outward direct investment, domestic foreign exchange accounts, and accounts of residents abroad. Within the framework of the regional financial market, the issue, soliciting, and sale of foreign or domestic securities in Togo is subject to the prior approval of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MOF. 941 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 TOGO Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of exported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare them to customs when entering Togo. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior MOF authorization. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may debit freely their accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the official foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 943 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 million. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 million and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 million are subject to prior inspection. Letters of credit LCs may be opened for all import operations, regardless of origin. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from any source. Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of Pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). Other nontariff measures. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A common solidarity fee of 1% and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries do not need to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment. The au- thorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions are subject to a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. Yes. Phosphate rock is subject to a specific export tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Payments abroad for invisible transactions may be made freely, subject to the presentation of documentary evidence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 944 TOGO Investment-related payments Prior approval Current transfers abroad of funds required to service loans are unrestricted. These must, however, be carried out through an authorized bank and are to be reported for statistical purposes to the MOF. Payments for depreciation of direct investments require prior au- thorization from the MOF, since this type of depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be transferred freely, but this must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The MOF verifies transactions that require its authorization. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Allocations for payments exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million may be taken out in traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There is no control on the payment of pensions. There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, family maintenance, or alimony. However, such payments must be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized agents. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Authoriza- tion is not required in the case of capital transfers for investments of residents abroad in- volving securities that were previously issued or sold with the approval of the RCPSFM. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. Capital inflows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declara- tion, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. In the implementation of the provisions indicated in this document, the term "foreigner" refers to all non-WAEMU countries with respect to limiting the open positions of banks and financial institutions and with respect to the following operations: repatriation of export proceeds; issue and sale of foreign securities; exports and imports of gold; foreign direct investments; credit operations with nonresidents; exports through the post by means of payment; and securities. For statistical purposes related to the compilation of the balance of payments of an individ- ual WAEMU member, all other countries are considered as foreign. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 945 Controls on capital and money market instruments With the exception of the issue and sale in the country of foreign securities, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. However, by their nature, these operations are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. However, the reinvestment of proceeds from the liquidation of a foreign investment by a resident requires prior MOF authorization. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of investments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MOF. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Togo by nonresi- dents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. After presenting the proper documents, residents may purchase freely in Togo any securities whose domestic issue and purchase has been previously authorized. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Togolese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MOF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized intermediary and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes, but does not require prior authorization. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are almost nonexistent in Togo, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase and sell options freely. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 946 TOGO Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the pay- ment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Togo and its parent company located abroad, they are consid- ered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires prior MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF approval is required. A maximum of 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad by a nonresident or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investment abroad by residents is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited in a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are controls on purchases when they do not involve direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 947 Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These credits may be granted freely on the condition that they be effected through an au- thorized bank and be reported to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and legacies, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other Operations Account countries require prior MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Upon presentation of documents justifying their income, emigrants may transfer their pen- sions, rents, or salaries freely through banks. Transfers of more than CFAF 300,000 are subject to the submission of supporting documentation. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to keep liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions may be conducted freely but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or the purchase of foreign currency- denominated securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the MOF with approval of the BCEAO. These purchases require prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 948 TOGO Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tonga is the Tongan pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The external value of the pa'anga is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, and the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate of the pa'anga in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT) within a band of ±5%. In light of additional information on the method in which the exchange rate of the pa'anga is determined, the exchange rate arrangement of Tonga was reclassified, effec- tive June 30, 2001, to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross foreign exchange liabilities must not exceed T$l million. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No particular requirements are specified, but settlements are normally made in convertible currencies acceptable to both parties. Tonga participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control The NRBT administers foreign exchange control regulations. The NRBT requires compliance with all applications for transfers in excess of US$50,000 or its equivalent, and it has delegated to authorized dealers approval authority for current payments and transfers not exceeding that amount. All payments exceeding US$50,000 require the prior approval of the NRBT. All capital transfers require the prior approval of the NRBT. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 949 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA Nonresident Accounts 950 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, approve applications for import transactions for amounts not exceeding US$50,000 or its equivalent. The prior approval of the NRBT is required for transactions in excess of US$50,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for all imports, but they are issued freely for selected imports, such as motor vehicles. Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers. Imports of certain items are restricted for cultural or environmental reasons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Ad valorem import tariffs on most goods range up to 35%. Imports of a few items (petro- leum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific tariffs or ad valorem rates of up to 525%. The tariff rate on motor vehicles is 45%. Imports by the reigning mon- arch, by the public sector, and by diplomatic missions; imports under certain technical as- sistance agreements; and imports of personal effects are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items under the Industrial Develop- ment Incentives Act, which qua l ify for concessional rates, and imports of the government, which are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds should be repatriated within 12 months, but this regulation is not enforced. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for all exports weighing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted liberally, except for squash. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 951 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, provide foreign exchange for invisible payments up to the equivalent of US$50,000. The prior approval of the NRBT, with submission of supporting documentation, is required for payments in excess of US$50,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Prior approval of the NRBT is required for all capital transactions. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 952 TONGA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Licenses are required for direct foreign investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are approved if there is a local partner. Investment is al- lowed in certain sectors, including wholesale and retail; transportation and some tourism- related activities; and all resource-based activities, such as fishing. Joint ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. The time period for the approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 953 process is approximately one week. Once licensed, foreign-financed projects in manufac- turing and tourism are fu l ly eligible to receive incentives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Tonga was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Currency Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Unitary. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) allows the exchange rate to move within a narrow range and maintains an informal ceiling on the exchange rate of TT$6.30 per US$1. As the Trinidad and Tobago dollar started to appreciate with respect to the U.S. dollar, indicating a lower degree of intervention, effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Trinidad and Tobago was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. No. No. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public without limitation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in Canadian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the CARICOM. Trinidad and Tobago is the agent for the inoperative Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility. Authority to administer exchange control is vested in the CBTT acting under the authority o f theMOF. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No. No. Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between residents must be an authorized bank. Controls on external trade Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) and are subject to specific export licenses, which are normally issued only to monetary authorities. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. For amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$5,000, a customs declaration is required. 954 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 955 Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in banknotes up to the equivalent of US$5,000 freely; for larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Duty-free licenses are granted to local concessionary manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing. Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are tightly controlled. All goods, unless exempted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under OGL arrangements. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. In accordance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, the customs duty rates on most goods range from 5% to 20%. The rate on agricultural produce is 40%. The duty rates on new motor vehicles range from 25% to 45%. All goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from duties, as are imports of some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the MTI and the Tourism Industrial Development Company, Ltd. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded principally by state companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 956 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Repatriation requirements In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repa- triates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Individual licenses are required for some foodstuffs, firearms and explosives, animals, gold, petroleum and petroleum products, and certain products not produced locally. Export li- censes for all other commodities are granted under OGLs. General licenses may also be issued at the discretion of the MTI. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and To- bago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Financial Institutions Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Holding interest in real estate is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 957 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effective May 1,2001, the reserve requirement applicable to domestic currency depos- its was lowered to 18% from 21%. A supplemental reserve requirement of 5% applies, which can be held in treasury securities. A reserve requirement of 9% applies to nonbank institutions. Liquid asset requirements A liquid asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange position limits A liquid asset ratio of 25% on foreign currency deposits is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Insurance companies are required to hold at least 80% of their investment assets locally. The Insurance Act imposes other controls. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement Capital transactions June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Trinidad and Tobago was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions May 1. The reserve requirement applicable to domestic currency deposits was lowered to 18% from 21%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in which commercial banks, including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident customers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) intervenes in the market and publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the following day, at the latest. CBT intervention is generally guided by the objective of main- taining the stability of the real effective exchange rate over time. Resident banks trade freely in foreign currencies in the spot market among themselves, with their foreign corre- spondents, and with nonresident banks in Tunisia. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the interbank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward rates are freely negotiated by the authorized counterpart bank. Forward cover may be estab- lished for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Resident enterprises may purchase, in the for- ward market, futures maturing in up to 12 months to hedge against exchange risks related to the repayment of their foreign currency loans. They may also sell, for terms of up to 12 months, the foreign currency from drawings on external loans or from foreign currency investments. Nonresidents may enter into contracts with resident licensed intermediaries for forward purchases of convertible dinars, maturing in up to 12 months. Resident licensed intermedi- aries may engage in, among themselves or with resident enterprises, foreign cur- rency/convertible dinar swaps, maturing in up to 12 months. They may also engage in for- eign currency/convertible dinar swaps with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, their foreign correspondent banks, and nonresident enterprises operating in Tunisia, to make spot purchases and forward sales of the convertible dinars. For the purposes of hedging against foreign currency interest rate risks, forward rate agreements may be signed for terms of 12 months by resident enterprises with foreign correspondent banks and by resident enter- prises with resident banks and nonresident banks operating in Tunisia. Residents contract- ing such foreign currency loans may also purchase 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options in dollars and euros. Options in other currencies may be listed on request. Licensed intermediaries may set the forward exchange rates for foreign currencies against dinars applied to customers' forward transactions in accordance with the procedures followed in international markets. Official cover of forward operations The reinsurance company manages this exchange cover mechanism for banks and financial institutions in respect of their borrowings abroad. 958 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of currency requirements TUNISIA 959 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between Tunisia and other countries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Controls on the use of domestic currency Payments in dinars may be made abroad through a convertible dinar foreign account maintained domestically in the name of the foreign creditors or of their banks. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The dinar is the currency of account and the currency of payment transactions between residents, unless otherwise authorized by the CBT subsequent to approval from the Ministry of Finance. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the CBT and the Ministry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks, whereas the MOT administers foreign trade control, which entails issuing import and ex- port authorization for the remaining products not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBT has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Imports and exports of gold in other forms require joint approval from the CBT and the MOT. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident travelers wishing to reexport the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts ex- ceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign currencies they are importing upon their entry into Tunisia. There is no ceiling on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be reexported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also required if the amount of foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 On imports TUNISIA from dinar reconversion exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 derived from the surrender of foreign currencies physically imported from abroad. Domestic currency Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad (1) Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) any resident natural person, (ii) any Tunisian juridical person, and (iii) any foreign juridical person in Tunisia with the foreign currency assets in connection with their activities. These accounts may be credited with (i) a maximum of 50% (or up to 100% with CBT authorization) of foreign exchange proceeds from the account holder's exports and foreign currency loans contracted in conformity with the regulations in force; (ii) interest accrued on the balances of these accounts; and (iii) transfers from the account holder's other professional accounts in the same currency or any other currency. The accounts may be debited for (i) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened, and (ii) any other transaction with general or specific authorization. Balances may be placed on the foreign exchange market. (2) Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) natural persons of Tunisian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad; (ii) resident natural persons of Tunisian nationality or Tunisian juridical persons for their nontransferable assets legitimately acquired abroad; (iii) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (iv) foreign juridical persons with branches in Tunisia; and (v) Tunisian diplomats and civil servants stationed abroad. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (i) foreign exchange sold on the interbank market; (ii) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to undertake foreign travel; (iii) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and (iv) any payments abroad, including those for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad or ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. (3) Effective January 10,2001, residents are free to open foreign currency international trading accounts to make payments related to their international merchanting and brokerage operations and associated expenses. These accounts may be credited with (i) the proceeds from sales of goods abroad, for which advance payment is received; (ii) profits and/or commission from international trade and brokerage operations; (iii) foreign currency loans contracted to refinance trade operations; (iv) foreign currency from trade operations repur- chased on the exchange market after it has been sold on the market; (v) interest generated by deposits on the account. They may be debited for (i) payments for purchases made within the framework of international trade operations and associated expenses; (ii) settle- ment of expenses related to international brokerage operations; (iii) repaying foreign cur- rency loans; (iv) settlement of current operations carried out in conformity with the ex- change and foreign trade regulations and any operation carried out with general or special authorization; and (v) sales of foreign currencies in the exchange market. Special accounts held by residents must be declared to the CBT. CBT authorization is required for residents to hold accounts abroad. Resident banks may freely open correspondent current accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by resident natural or juridical persons with resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited in accordance with the terms specified by the CBT in the au- thorization to open such accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 961 Special accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by the same natural and juridical persons that may open special foreign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be credited with the dinar proceeds from sales on the interbank market of funds legitimately acquired abroad, but not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia. They may be debited for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) the acquisition of foreign currencies either for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring, or for making payments abroad, particularly for the acquisition of movable or real estate property located abroad, ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities; and (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. A declaration of holdings is required. Special export earnings accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by Tunisian or for- eign natural persons residing in Tunisia who earn profits from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident company earning profits from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be freely credited with (1) 10% of the export earnings realized by the account holder or received from companies in which he or she is a shareholder, (2) proceeds from sales on the interbank market of foreign ex- change representing income or revenue from assets acquired abroad by debiting the ac- count, and (3) interest on balances in the account. They may be freely debited for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or offspring; and (3) payments in connection with a current op- eration or to acquire rights and interests abroad regardless of whether these are represented by securities, including related management fees. CRT authorization is required for open- ing these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign accounts in convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents re- gardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies (banknotes must be declared at customs); (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (4) interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (5) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (6) the amount of cashed checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the CBT, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident bene- ficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) transfers to other foreign accounts. Domestic nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of foreigners residing temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the CBT with the following: (1) transfers of funds carried out in con- vertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular the nontransferable part of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another internal non- resident account opened in the name of the account holder. These accounts may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her family in Tunisia, (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia, (3) lending to residents, and (4) transfers to another inter- nal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. Special dinar accounts may be opened freely by foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the CBT. These enterprises are authorized to open for each contract a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. The accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 962 TUNISIA transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds depos- ited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. These enterprises are free to retransfer dinar equivalents credited to their foreign currency accounts, provided that the funds available in the account are suffi- cient to cover the transfer. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the CBT. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Capital accounts may be opened freely in the name of a nonresident natural person of for- eign nationality or by a nonresident juridical person. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the CBT, with the proceeds of sales on the stock exchange, or the contractual or advance redemption of transferable Tunisian securities; with the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court, or of rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an author- ized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the man- agement of Tunisian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the ex- ception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Natural and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresidents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the CBT, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian government or public institutions, or payment of the expenses of managing securities de- posited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be deb- ited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the following year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Natural and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Foreign accounts in convertible dinars may be opened freely by all nonresidents regard- less of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the dinar proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the interbank market (banknotes must be declared at cus- toms); (2) proceeds from authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (3) proceeds from the conversion of the amount of cashed checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in foreign currency and made out by a nonresident to the order of the ac- count holder; (4) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (5) interest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these accounts without authorization from the CBT, granted either directly or by delegation. Convertible into foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 963 These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia, and (2) pur- chases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for deliv- ery to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers must receive a customs code. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are free, except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and cultural heritage, and are effected by an import certificate domiciled with an authorized intermediary. Goods not liberalized need an import authorization granted through the MOT. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment that are paid for by sources outside Tunisia and do not involve the payment or delivery of foreign currency may be effected by enterprises for their own use without foreign trade formalities up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services; companies established in an industrial park; and holders of permits for exploration, research, the operation of concessions in the hydrocarbons sector, or contractors or subcontractors employed by such companies, may import freely, without foreign trade formalities, any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. Tunisia has signed free trade agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, and Morocco. Effective November 26, 2001, Tunisia established a free trade zone with Iraq and a free trade agreement with Libya. Goods not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cultural heritage are included in a list issued by decree. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a list of which is drawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical import controls. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the VAT and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for fu ll or partial exemption from import duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is ex- tended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Nonresident companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incen- tives Code, as well as nonresident international trading companies and nonresident enter- prises constituted in a free trade zone, are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit to their professional accounts up to 50% of their foreign exchange export proceeds and their foreign currency loans contracted in accordance with existing exchange regulations. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 964 TUNISIA Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports of goods covered by the liberalization of foreign trade must be domiciled within eight days of the date of shipment. Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. Most exports are free, and certain goods may be exported with an authorization issued by the MOT. Tunisia has signed free trade agreements with Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, pro- viding for the liberalization of 2,000 products and for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between Tunisia and the three countries by December 2007. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers may be freely effected for payments of freight, storage, and warehousing ser- vices; transit and administrative fees; customs duties; commissions; and fees for analyses and controls of materials and products. Income from foreign capital invested in accordance with the laws and regulations in force and interest on foreign currency loans contracted by residents in accordance with the regu- lations in force may be transferred freely. Rent from real estate owned by nonresidents may be transferred freely. The annual allowance for tourist travel is D 1,000 an adult and D 500 a child under ten years of age (these amounts may be accumulated over a period of two consecutive calendar years). Effective March 2,2001, the business travel allowance for exporters is 15% of ex- port proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 120,000 (previously 10% and D 80,000, respectively). Any unused portion of this allowance may be carried forward to subsequent years, provided that the cumulative amount does not exceed the annual limit of D 120,000. At the same time, resident individuals and corporations that have signed service or work contracts with nonresidents which can be fully or partially implemented abroad may receive a "contracts realizable abroad" business travel allowance (AVA) set at 15% of the contract amount. Exporters may cumulatively receive this AVA and the Exporter-AVA. The annual limit for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depend- ing on the value of the previous year's imports, and the annual limit for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on the previous year's turn- over declared to the tax authorities. The travel allowance for promoters of new projects is a maximum of D 5,000, and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the transfer of pensions. Alimony payments to the ex-spouse and children in a definitive judgment are freely transferable. The annual allowance for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health is D 750. Persons accompanying patients may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. The annual settlement allowance and the monthly living expense allowances for students studying abroad are D 1,500 and D 700, respectively. Education allowances are freely transferable up to a ceiling of D 6,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit of D 750 for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health may be ex- ceeded if the patient's condition requires several trips abroad during the same year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 965 Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Contractually employed foreign nationals may transfer up to 50% of their earnings. For foreign experts employed by the public sector, limits on transfers are specified in their con- tracts; otherwise, the restrictions for contractually employed foreign nationals will apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Only operators eligible for business travel allowances are authorized to use credit cards abroad. Yes. Those eligible for business travel allowances may use their credit cards abroad only to the extent of their transfer entitlements for these allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Subscription fees for journals and periodicals, membership fees, and dues for foreign asso- ciations and organizations; and payments for literary and artistic rights, legal proceedings, arbitrage, and attorney fees are freely transferable. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents are required to repatriate all remuneration for services rendered to nonresidents and all proceeds from invisible transactions received from abroad. Resident providers of services to nonresidents may retain in their professional foreign cur- rency accounts up to 50% of the foreign currency earnings accruing from these accounts and their foreign exchange borrowings contracted in accordance with the exchange regulations in force. Foreign exchange deposited in professional accounts must be used in accordance with the rules governing the operation of accounts of this type. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. Stocks may be acquired freely with foreign exchange transferred from abroad by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stocks with voting rights and for acquisitions that result in foreign ownership exceeding 50% of capital shares listed in the stock exchange and for unlisted shares, the approval of the High Investment Commission (HIC) is required. Authorization is not required from the HIC for acquisitions of Tunisian securities entailing voting rights or shares in companies established in Tunisia (1) between associates or shareholders in the same company who are foreign nationals; (2) by nonresident natural or juridical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired within the limit of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management activities of foreign directors in these companies. Nonresidents may sell shares of companies established in Tunisia freely. They may also transfer freely net real proceeds from the sale of shares that were purchased with foreign exchange transferred from abroad for an investment made in accordance with the legislation in force. Purchase abroad by residents The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resi- dent exporters may transfer D 40,000 to D 200,000 annually to finance equity participation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 966 TUNISIA in companies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign currency or con- vertible dinars or special export earnings accounts may purchase securities abroad by debiting these accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The subscription by nonresident foreign nationals of debt securities issued by state or resident companies is subject to approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may acquire freely shares of Tunisian mutual funds with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is required if the acquisition raises the foreign ownership to more than 50% of the mutual fund's capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may transfer freely net real proceeds from sales of Tunisian mutual fund shares acquired with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Effective May 4, 2001, resident banks may engage in (1) foreign currency swaps maturing in up to 12 months with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, and with foreign correspondent banks; (2) foreign currency/dinar swaps maturing in up to 12 months among themselves and with resident enterprises provided that the transactions in question back actual com- mercial or financial transactions; and (3) foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps by mak- ing spot purchases and forward sales of convertible dinars to nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, foreign correspondent banks, and nonresident enterprises operating in Tunisia. For the purposes of hedging against foreign exchange rate risks, resident banks may conclude future rate agreements for terms of up to 12 months with foreign correspondent banks and with resident enterprises with resident banks and nonresident banks operating in Tunisia. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits These credits require approval from the CRT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia and short-term credits in dinars to finance the local oper- ating expenses of nonresident enterprises established in Tunisia. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency financial loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively; all other loans require approval from the CBT. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment TUNISIA 967 Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee their obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guarantees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppliers. The issue and establishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by residents are not subject to approval. At the request, and with the counterguarantee, of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection with business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. Outward direct investments by residents require approval from the CBT; however, to sup- port their export activities, exporters may freely transfer amounts ranging from D 40,000 to D 200,000 a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity participation, and D 20,000 to D 100,000 to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. Foreigners may invest freely in most economic sectors. However, the participation of for- eigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export activities requires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investments carried out legitimately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require prior approval from the CBT. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require prior approval from the CBT. Sale locally by nonresidents Authorization is required for sales other than those made to a resident and involving real estate that is the subject of a land title. These sales are recorded in the Land Registry solely upon presentation of documentation showing that the price was deposited by the buyer to a suspense or capital account maintained in the name of the vendor in the books of a licensed intermediary. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Authorization is not required to take possession of an inheritance established in Tunisia for the benefit of a nonresident. The transfer of proceeds from gifts, endowments, and inheri- tances not previously guaranteed is subject to approval. Authorization is not required for gifts from nonresidents to residents, and for taking pos- session of an inheritance established abroad for a resident. Proceeds from gifts and inheri- tances must be declared and repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 968 TUNISIA Transfer into the country by immigrants Nonresident Tunisian nationals returning definitively to the country must declare and repa- triate their assets or proceeds and revenue from their holdings abroad. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad On July 10, 2001, Law 2001-65 was introduced, amending the banking legislation. Resident financial institutions may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to a limit of D 10 million. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks may freely open correspondent accounts with foreign banks of their choice. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange The approval of the CBT is required for loans granted by resident banks to nonresidents. However, resident banks may freely grant loans on the foreign exchange money market to nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia for operating expenses and to finance imports and exports. In addition, resident banks may extend dinar loans to offshore companies to finance local (dinar-denominated) operational expenses. Such loans cannot be used to purchase foreign exchange and must be placed in a special account. Resident banks may freely extend credit to finance import and export operations. They may also lend their foreign currency surpluses to other resident banks and to their correspondent banks in exchange for loans in another currency with the same maturity. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits There is no reserve requirement on foreign currency deposit accounts. Effective February 16,2001, a liquidity ratio requirement was introduced that takes foreign currency deposits into account. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits are freely negotiated between the bank and ac- count holders, except that remuneration of the foreign currency accounts of residents may not be more than a half point below the rates of remuneration published by the CBT for foreign currency amounts above or equal to D 10,000. The dinar deposits of nonresidents are included in the calculation of the reserve requirements base. Effective February 16, 2001, a liquidity ratio requirement was introduced that takes nonresidents' deposits into account. Interest rates on dinar and convertible dinar deposits of nonresidents are freely negotiated, except in the case of demand accounts, on which there is a cap of 2%. The remuneration on foreign currency accounts is freely negotiated with banks. Dinar balances in suspense accounts and capital accounts do not earn interest. Yes. Approval is required for any acquisition of capital in a bank or other financial institution and, in all cases, for the acquisition of a proportion of the voting rights equal to or exceed- ing 10%, as well as of any instrument that may result in the transfer of a significant propor- tion of the assets, potentially changing its financial structure or the focus of its activities. Net open positions of banks operating in the foreign exchange market resulting from both spot and forward transactions are limited to 10% of banks' net equity capital in each cur- rency, with a global limit of 20% for position in all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws TUNISIA 969 Yes. Yes. Any acquisition on the stock exchange of a twentieth, tenth, fifth, third, half, or two-thirds of the capital of a company that is involved in public deposit taking must be declared to that company, to the Financial Board, and to the Securities Exchange. Changes During 2001 Resident accounts January 10. Regulations on international trading were introduced. Imports and import payments November 26. An executive memorandum on the establishment of a free trade zone with Iraq and a free trade agreement with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya were concluded. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March 2. The business travel allowance for exporters was raised to 15% of export proceeds from 10%, and the annual limit was increased to D 120,000 from D 80,000. A business travel allowance for contracts with nonresidents was introduced. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments May 4. Foreign currency/dinar and foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps and hedging operations against foreign currency exchange rate risks (forward rate agreements) were authorized. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 16. A liquidity ratio requirement was introduced for deposit accounts in foreign exchange and for deposit accounts held by nonresidents. July 10. Law 2001-65 was introduced, amending the banking legislation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Effective February 22, 2001, the lira was allowed to float. As a consequence, the ex- change rate system was reclassified to the category independently floating from the cate- gory crawling peg. Prior to that date, the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) preannounced the exchange rate path of the lira against a basket comprising the dollar and the euro (in amounts equivalent to $1 and €0.77). A 0.1% banking and insurance transaction tax is applied to sales of foreign exchange against the Turkish lira. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks may deal with forward transactions within the framework of open position limits set according to the regulation on total net foreign exchange positions/own funds ratio and the regulations on capital adequacy. There is no limit on forward transactions of precious metal brokerage institutions. Official cover of forward operations Banks may enter into swap transactions with the CBT with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months, provided that the CBT agrees to engage in such transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain commercial transactions with Poland are made through special accounts denominated in dollars. There is an agreement with Poland. Barter agreements and open accounts There is a banking agreement with Poland. Administration of control The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administer the exchange controls, while the Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency (BRSA) and the CBT together regulate and supervise banks' open foreign exchange position limits. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Turkey maintains certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the government of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Yes. No. Domestic purchases and sales of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by intermedi- ary institutions dealing in precious metals may be conducted only at the Istanbul Gold Ex- change (IGE). The purchase and sale of precious metals and stones or articles therefrom may be conducted freely within the country. 970 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency TURKEY 971 In accordance with the Foreign Trade Regime, exports and imports of precious metals and stones or articles containing them may be conducted freely. Only the CBT and intermediary institutions dealing in precious metals that are members of the IGE may import unproc- essed gold without being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the latter must surrender the gold to the IGE within three days. Selling operations of imported gold should initially take place in the IGE. Banks may open gold deposit accounts for natural and juridical entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders should surrender processed gold to banks in order to open gold deposit accounts. Within the framework of the banking regulations, banks that are members of the IGE may extend gold credits to customers. The buying and selling prices of gold are freely deter- mined by banks. Intermediary institutions dealing in precious metals may obtain gold cred- its from abroad for their own account and/or for the accounts of their customers. However, gold obtained as a credit should be transferred to the IGE within three days. Travelers may bring into and take out of the country ornamental articles made from pre- cious metals and stones with a value not exceeding the equivalent of $15,000. The export of ornamental articles exceeding this value is dependent on their declaration upon arrival or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may freely take abroad up to the equivalent of $5,000. Travelers may freely take up to the equivalent of $5,000 out of the country. To take out more than this amount, nonresidents must declare banknotes upon arrival, and residents must present a document confirming that the foreign banknotes were purchased from banks and special finance institutions for invisible transactions. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 972 TURKEY Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Imports of certain items are prohibited for environmental, security, health, or public moral- ity reasons, or in accordance with international obligations. These items include certain carcinogenic coloring substances, chemicals used in the production of chemical weapons or other arms and ammunition, counterfeit labels, gambling instruments, narcotics, and ozone- depleting substances. Import licenses, which are issued by the relevant authorities, are re- quired for 12 groups of items, including telecommunications and transmission equipment, some machinery, some motor vehicles, some chemicals, and a number of items related to civil aircraft. Imports of old, used, renovated, faulty, or obsolete goods are subject to per- mission from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, but certain goods that are not older than 10 years may be imported freely. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmonization of Turkey's import policy with that of the EU. Turkey has adopted the EU's quota policy on imports of textiles and clothing products. These quotas, which are not part of the EU's global quotas, were intro- duced under Article XIV of the GATT (94), and they are consistent with the provisions of this article and other WTO agreements on textiles and clothing. Currently, textiles and clothing imports from 21 countries are subject to quotas. Turkey has also introduced quotas on imports of certain products originating in China, including footwear; ceramic, china, or porcelain tableware and kitchenware; and toys. Effective January 4, 2002, the simple average tariff rate for imports of industrial products is 4.5%, except for those imported from EU and EFTA countries, for which the rate is zero. The simple average tariff rate for imports of agricultural products is 55.7%, while that for imports from EU and EFTA countries is 54.7%. In accordance with the Information Tech- nology Agreement of the WTO, Turkey eliminated customs tariffs on 560 information technology products at the end of 2000. Turkey has either reduced or eliminated customs tariffs on imports of 556 products originating from the 50 least-developed countries. Effec- tive January 1, 2002, in order to ensure that Turkey's market access commitments to the WTO for the year 2002 are not in excess of the commitment levels specified in the Agree- ment, tariff rates on the goods covered in Lists I, III, and IV annexed to the Import Regime were reduced. Additionally, Article 13 of the previous Import Regime Decree was abol- ished, allowing unrestricted imports of old, used, and renovated goods up to 10 years old. Previously, specified old, used, and renovated goods that were between 6 and 10 years old were subject to a Mass Housing Levy of 50% of the c.i.f. value of the goods. On that same date, Turkey began to apply the EU's Generalized System of Preferences and the GSP rates that are indicated in List II. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered within 180 days following the date of ship- ment to banks or special financial institutions. Exporters may retain foreign exchange re- ceipts from abroad up to the equivalent of $50,000. If at least 70% of the foreign exchange receipts are surrendered within 90 days following the date of shipment, exporters are enti- tled to retain the remaining 30%, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes TURKEY 973 All goods, other than those whose exportation is prohibited by law, decrees, or international agreements, may be exported freely within the framework of the Export Regime Decree. However, within the framework of WTO rules, restrictions and prohibitions on exports may be imposed in case of market turmoil; scarcity of the goods to be exported; public safety, morals, and health; or environmental concerns (this also applies to several varieties of flora and fauna). Restrictions and prohibitions also apply to exports of articles bearing artistic, historical, or archeological value. Export taxes are levied on nuts and unprocessed leather. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Credit cards may be used on a revolving basis up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a year for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases and sales of domestic securities and other instruments by nonresidents and of foreign securities by residents may be effected freely. However, all transactions in securi- ties must be carried out through banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to capital market legislation, and all related transfers must be performed through banks and special financial institutions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents may freely issue, introduce, and sell domestic securities abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by residents of securities traded in foreign financial markets may be effected freely, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, special financial institutions, and intermediary institutions authorized according to the legislation on capital transactions, and that the transfer of their purchase value abroad is made through banks and special financial institutions. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale and issue of foreign securities and other instruments by nonresidents is subject to Capital Market Board (CMB) registration. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale'or issue of these instruments by nonresidents is subject to CMB registration requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 974 TURKEY On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. No. The maturity of commodity credits may not exceed two years for nondurable goods or five years for other goods. Residents may obtain freely credits from abroad, provided that they use such credits through the banks or special financial institutions. The maximum maturity of prefi- nancing credits is 18 months, except in the case of shipbuilding, where it is 24 months. Credits with a maturity of more than one year that are obtained by the public sector or guaranteed by the treasury must be registered in the External Financing Information Sys- tem maintained by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Effective October 1, 2001, all other credits are subject to CRT review. Residents may freely export capital in cash up to $5 million or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies through banks or special financial institutions, and capital in kind within the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation for the purpose of direct investment. Permission for direct investments that require the transfer of capital in kind or in cash ex- ceeding the equivalent of $5 million is granted by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Permission is required from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury within the framework of the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Law. The minimum amount of capital that may be brought in by foreign investors is $50,000 or its equivalent. Proceeds may be transferred abroad but must be reported to the CBT. Nonresidents may not acquire real estate in military or security areas. The acquisition of real estate by nonresidents in villages is prohibited. Exceptions to this restriction may be granted by the Council of Ministers for activities in the tourism and petroleum sectors. Real estate in villages acquired by nonresidents through inheritance must be liquidated. Outside the boundaries of villages, foreign natural persons may acquire real estate on the condition of reciprocity. However, the acquisition of land exceeding 30 hectares requires the permis- sion of the Council of Ministers. Foreign juridical persons established in Turkey may ac- quire real estate to conduct their business and economic activities. However, the real estate may not be used to carry out realty activities. Personal capital in cash form may be freely transferred into and out of the country, in ac- cordance with exchange legislation. Inward and outward personal capital transfers in kind may be effected in accordance with customs and exchange legislation. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Resident banks may extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and the balances in their foreign exchange deposit accounts. Such credits may also be effected in Turkish liras, provided that the amount is within the limits determined in the Banking Law for banks or in the communique regarding special financial institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 975 Lending locally in foreign exchange Resident banks may not extend credits in foreign exchange to residents except to those who are exporters; investors; Turkish entrepreneurs working abroad; residents who are conducting business related to international tenders held in Turkey; and residents who are conducting business related to defense industry projects that have been approved by the Undersecretariat of the Defense Industry. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents With the exception of domestic interbank deposits, the reserve requirement ratio for depos- its in local currency is 4%, while that for deposits in foreign currency is 11%. Banks must place the necessary reserves in a special account held with the CBT. Effective August 8, 2001, reserve requirements in local currency may be remunerated. Special financial houses are obliged to hold reserves of 6% and 11% for domestic and foreign currencies, respec- tively, to be collected in current and participation accounts. Banks must hold 8% liquidity reserves against deposits in local currency, of which 4% must be held in government bonds, 2% must be deposited in the CBT, and a maximum of 2% may be held as cash in their vaults. For other liabilities in local currency, banks must hold 12% liquidity reserves, of which 6% must be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 4% held in government bonds, and a maximum of 2% held as cash in their vaults. Banks must hold 3% liquidity reserves against foreign exchange deposits, of which a minimum of 1% must be held in government bonds and a maximum of 2% held as cash in their vaults. For other foreign exchange liabilities, banks must hold 14% liquidity reserves, of which 11% must be deposited in the CBT, a minimum of 1% held in government bonds, and a maxi- mum of 2% held as cash in their vaults. Until February 15, 2002, when these requirements were eliminated, the following require- ments applied to banks under liquidation and excess foreign exchange positions: (1) Deposits in local currency were subject to an 8% liquidity reserve, of which a minimum of 4% had to be held in government bonds, 2% deposited in the CBT, and a maximum of 2% held as cash in vault; (2) Liabilities in local currency, other than deposits in banks, were subject to a 12% li- quidity reserve, of which 6% had to be deposited in the CBT, a m in imum of 4% held in government bonds, and a maximum of 2% as cash in vault; (3) Foreign exchange deposits in banks were subject to a 3% liquidity reserve, of which a minimum of 1% had to be held in government bonds and a maximum of 2% as cash in vault; (4) Foreign exchange liabilities, other than deposits, were subject to a 14% reserve re- quirement, of which 11% had to be deposited in the CBT, a minimum of 1% in government bonds, and a maximum of 2% as cash in vault; and (5) Banks were required to maintain a liquidity ratio of 100% of their open position in Turkish lira at the CBT. The opening of branches or representative offices abroad by banks founded in Turkey is subject to the permission of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). Likewise, the opening of a company abroad by banks, or banks' participation in a previ- ously established company abroad, requires the permission of the BRSA. Banks that fail to meet the standard ratios according to the Banks Act may not acquire new shares in partnerships. Any acquisition of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person exceed 10%, 20%, 33%, or 50% of the capital of the bank, and any transfer of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person fall below these limits are subject to prior permission of the BRSA. Transactions that result in reducing the number of shareholders to less than five, or in shares being assigned without permission, may not be registered. These rules are valid for the acquisition of voting rights and pledging of shares. The assignment of preferential ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 976 TURKEY Open foreign exchange position limits shares requires BRSA approval, irrespective of the above limits. In the application of these regulations, no distinction is drawn between residents and nonresidents. All foreign exchange-indexed assets and liabilities have to be taken into account fully as foreign assets and foreign liabilities. The ratio of the total net foreign exchange position to own funds is 20%. Banks are required to calculate foreign exchange exposure limits on a consolidated basis. Effective February 1, 2002, the regulations on foreign exchange posi- tion risk were amended to ensure that there is a balance between banks' foreign exchange assets and liabilities and that banks maintain foreign exchange positions that are in line with their own funds. The ratio between net foreign exchange position and own funds should be ±20% (if the ratio exceeds this limit, the BRSA will bring it back to the ±20% level within six months). This limit is the same as that stipulated by the previous regulation, except that net foreign exchange position is now compared to own funds instead of capital base. The definition of own funds is provided in the Directive on Establishment and Opera- tions of Banks (dated June 27, 2001), and covers the sum core capital and supplementary capital from which some items are deducted. The same definition is used in the capital adequacy ratio. The provisions of these regulations are also applied to special financial institutions. Effective February 15, 2002, excess foreign exchange positions were no longer subject to liquidity requirements. Provisions specific to institutional investors In accordance with the Insurance Supervision Law, insurance companies may invest their technical provisions only locally. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents For pension funds, foreign securities may not exceed 15% of portfolio. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally For pension funds, public debt instruments must be at least 30% of their portfolios. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2001 February 22. The lira was allowed to float. As a consequence, the exchange rate ar- rangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling peg. October 1. The authority to examine credits with maturities of more than one year by the private sector was transferred from the Undersecretariat of Treasury to the CBT. August 8. Reserve requirements in local currency were allowed to be remunerated. Imports and import payments January L Turkey began to apply the EU's Generalized System of Preferences and the GSP rates that are indicated in List II. Changes During 2002 January 1. In order to ensure that Turkey's market access commitments to the WTO for the year 2002 are not in excess of the commitment levels specified in the Agreement, tar- iff rates on the goods covered in Lists I, HI, and IV annexed to the Import Regime were reduced. Additionally, Article 13 of the previous Import Regime Decree was abolished, allowing unrestricted imports of old, used, and renovated goods up to 10 years old. Pre- viously, specified old, used, and renovated goods that were between 6 and 10 years old were subject to a Mass Housing Levy of 50% of the c.i.f. value of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions TURKEY 977 January 4. The simple average tariff rate for imports of industrial products was set at 4.5%, except for those imported from EU and EFTA countries, for which the rate was zero. February 1. The required ratio between net foreign exchange position and own funds was set at ±20%, and if the ratio exceeds this limit, the BRSA will bring it back to the ±20% level within six months (previously, the calculation was between net foreign exchange position and capital base). February 1. Excess foreign exchange positions were no longer subject to liquidity requirements. February 15. Banks under liquidation and excess foreign exchange positions were no longer subject to liquidity requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Turkmenistan is the Turkmen manat. Exchange rate structure Dual. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts The official (cash and noncash) exchange rate is determined at a weekly central bank auc- tion in which authorized commercial banks participate. The official rate has remained unchanged at manat 5,200 per $1. Access to the foreign exchange auction is limited to authorized banks, and bids are screened by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT) and the Foreign Currency Committee (FCC). Banks participate in the auctions on behalf of their customers and for transactions approved by the CBT and the FCC. Bids are sub- mitted at the rate established in the previous auction; if demand exceeds the foreign exchange supplied by the CBT, the excess demand is shifted to the next session. The commercial banks' cash foreign exchange window is open with respect to a short posi- tive list of transactions: (1) medical treatment abroad; (2) educational support for students abroad; (3) official travel by public officers; and (4) travel abroad due to the death of an immediate relative. A 50% exchange tax is levied on cash receipts from natural gas exports. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Russia and a few other countries of the FSU are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments arrangements are effected in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Barter transactions, other than natural gas exports, must take place through the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are conducted in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. The bilateral agreements with Malaysia and the Islamic Republic of Iran are inoperative. Trilateral agreements are maintained with Armenia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and with Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran. There are barter trade agreements for natural gas exports to the Islamic Republic of Iran and oil exports to Ukraine, and there are agreements with Kazakhstan and Tajikistan for the export of electricity. 978 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 979 Administration of control The CBT, along with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and the FCC, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations, depending on the type of operation involved. The use of official foreign exchange reserves is controlled to a large extent by the president of Turkmenistan. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Domestic and foreign banknotes may be exported and imported freely, provided funds are declared on arrival and departure. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with local commercial banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened if the holder possesses a certificate of registration issued by the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president of Turkmenistan; the author- ized bank determines the amount and currency denomination of interest payable on these accounts. All external payments made from these accounts must be approved by the CBT; however, cash withdrawals in foreign currency may be made without the approval of the CBT. With the permission of the CBT, Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad for the duration of their foreign residence. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons are eligible to hold these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 980 TURKMENISTAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of goods on a small negative list (arms, narcotics, antiques) are prohibited. Ap- proval of the president or the Cabinet of Ministers (CM) is required to import these goods. Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise taxes are levied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewelry, and cars. Goods in transit are exempt. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses With quotas Export taxes The private sector and joint-venture enterprises are exempt from surrender requirements, as are public enterprises in the cotton sector. Surrender requirements for other enterprises are 50%, all of which is to be remitted to the CBT. The natural gas sector, however, is subject to a surrender requirement of 25% in addition to the 50% tax. n.a. Yes. All exports, except natural gas, are to be channeled through the Stock Commodity Exchange. Quantitative and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supplies. Taxes collected through the exchange system There is a 50% foreign exchange tax on natural gas. Also, 0.01% of the value of licensed products paid for with convertible currencies is collected as a fee. The fee on exports to the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU is 0.1% of the ruble value of the licensed product. The customs department also charges an administration fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments require prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Yes. After the payment of taxes, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in domestic or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Residents must possess valid passports to purchase foreign exchange for travel abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval TURKMENISTAN 981 The limit is $1,000 a transaction or its equivalent, with no limit on the number of transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to commercial banks, except for the retained portion allowed in the case of enterprises. Banks are required to resell to the CBT at the auction rate all foreign exchange received from customers. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to CBT approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The nonresidents' share in the equity of a resident company is limited to 49%. Nonresidents may purchase only registered shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to quotas and licensing by the CM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quotas and licensing by the CM. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to quotas and licensing by the CM. On money market instruments These transactions are subject to quotas and licensing by the CM. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Markets for transactions in derivatives do not exist. A CBT license or its approval is required for residents. Nonresidents need only CBT approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 982 TURKMENISTAN To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Investments by juridical persons are permitted, in principle, in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain an authorization from the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president; if the amount exceeds $500,000 or its equivalent, the approval of the CM is required. Foreign participation in joint-stock companies is limited to 49%. Foreign investors have the right to recover investments within six months of liquidation. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A CBT license is required. Provided the license is granted, no controls apply to individual transactions. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. A CBT and/or an MEF license is required, depending on the type of institutional investors. Other controls imposed by securities laws Institutional investors are required to meet minimum capital requirements. Responsibility rests with the CM, the CBT, and/or the MEF, depending on the type of investors. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external value of the Uganda shilling is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain transactions may be effected in exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may deal with customers in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, including those for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a nonresident account in Uganda or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Trade and payments agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Under the terms of the East African Cooperation Agreement, the Uganda, Kenya, and Tan- zania shillings are now freely convertible in the three countries. Excess holdings of Kenya and/or Tanzania shillings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in dollars. Uganda maintains clearing arrangements with Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in dollars with COMESA member countries through the COMESA clearinghouse. Residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. The BOU has delegated a broad range of responsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Tour- ism, Trade, and Industry (MTTI). In accordance with UN sanctions Transactions are not allowed with countries subject to UN sanctions. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. 983 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 984 UGANDA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Residents may hold and acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only monetary au- thorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Dealing in gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requires licenses issued by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. On the basis of these licenses, the MTTI issues export and import permits. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts No blocked accounts currently exist; however, an account may be blocked if it is required by law. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of firearms, pornographic materials, tires, and goods banned under international agreements to which Uganda is a signatory are prohibited. Customs duties on goods imported from countries outside COMESA are zero, 7%, and 15%. For COMESA members, they are zero, 4%, and 6%. The rate for machinery is zero, and duties for intermediate goods and raw materials range up to 7%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 985 Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Resident foreign nationals may purchase land, whereas nonresident foreign nationals may only be granted a lease not exceeding 99 years. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Banks must hold 20% of foreign deposits in reserve on their own account. Banks must also maintain (unremunerated) cash reserves on deposit with the central bank, amounting to 8% of time deposits and 9% of demand deposits. These requirements are in addition to liquidity requirements, which are based on total deposits and are not differentiated by currency. There are requirements of 20% on demand deposits and of 15% on time and savings depos- its. These are applied to both domestic and foreign currency accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to have an open position equivalent to 20% of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Yes. Yes.. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 986 UGANDA Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ukraine is the Ukrainian hry vnia. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) sets the official exchange rate of the hry vnia against the dollar based on the weighted average exchange rate of bank transactions on the Ukrain- ian interbank currency exchange. The NBU intervenes to limit abrupt fluctuations in the exchange rate. The official exchange rate is used by residents and nonresidents to ac- count for foreign exchange transactions, as well as in other cases provided for by legisla- tion. Effective November 16, 2001, a limit of 5% was imposed on commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions. Juridical and natural persons purchasing foreign currency must pay a 1% tax, which is used to fund the state pension insurance. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all countries are settled in foreign currencies. Nonbarter trade with CIS member countries and the Baltic countries is settled either in convertible currencies or in national currencies. Residents may transfer hryvnias to nonresidents through hryvnia correspondent accounts opened with Ukrainian authorized banks by nonresident banks, but they must provide the servicing bank with a certificate from the State Tax Administration of Ukraine (STA) showing that no debt is owed on the budget on the date of the transaction. An NBU license is required if the due date for the delivery of imported goods or of proceeds from exports exceeds 90 days. For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments In certain instances, authorization is required from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Commercial credits are allowed only to economic agents of CIS countries. An NBU license is required for credits with maturities exceeding 90 days. An NBU license is required. Inoperative There are arrangements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other FSU countries. 987 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 988 UKRAINE Regional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Barter is one of the forms of trade for Ukrainian companies in their transactions, used largely with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU. The use of barter in foreign trade transactions is prohibited for a group of goods determined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. The NBU, authorized banks, the STA, the State Customs Service, the State Committee of Communications, and the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine administer exchange controls. Restrictions are maintained on payments and on the provision of financial services to Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iraq, the Taliban, and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payments arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are required to obtain a license from the MOF to deal in precious stones and metals, except for monetary metals. The NBU licenses commercial bank transactions in bank metals. Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Ministry of Economy and European Integration in consultation with the MOF. Individual licenses to export bank metals are issued by the NBU. Residents and nonresident natural persons may export up to HRV 1,000 upon oral declara- tion and up to HRV 10,000 with mandatory customs declaration, which should include jubilee and commemorative coins made from precious and nonprecious metals. An individ- ual NBU license is required for exports above these limits. Resident juridical persons pos- sessing, leasing, or chartering transportation facilities may export up to HRV 3,000 through designated persons aboard the transportation facility, subject to mandatory customs declara- tion. They may also export proceeds received, if accompanied by supporting cashier docu- ments. Nonresident juridical persons must obtain an individual NBU license. Resident and nonresident natural persons traveling as tourists or on personal matters are allowed to export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. Exports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) foreign currency checks and bank metals previously imported legally into Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $5,000 in cash withdrawn from an account or as a Visa travel money card purchased from a bank teller (for resident natural persons only) and/or traveler's checks purchased in accordance with a certificate from an authorized bank of Ukraine; (3) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots; and (4) for nonresident natural persons, checks issued by foreign banks and nonbanking institutions. An individual NBU license is required above these limits. Natural persons in transit are allowed to export foreign cur- rency in cash and other instruments up to $30,000 or bank metals up to 1,000 grams, pro- vided that they previously imported the amounts and subject to documentary evidence of the transit nature of the travel. Resident and nonresident natural persons traveling on official business are allowed to ex- port up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. Exports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) foreign currencies and checks previously imported legally into Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks in accordance with a certificate from an authorized Ukrainian bank; and (3) for nonresident natural persons, checks that were imported or sent into Ukraine. For resident juridical persons, exports of the following require a certificate from an author- ized Ukrainian bank and a written customs declaration: (1) up to the equivalent of $1,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency UKRAINE 989 to provide for transportation expenses; (2) up to the equivalent of $2,000 to pay for auto- mobile travel expenses; and (3) up to the equivalent of $10,000 to pay for air transportation and ferry expenses. An individual NBU license is required for amounts exceeding these limits. The captain of a vessel belonging to or chartered by a nonresident is allowed to ex- port foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) to pay for operating expenses and crew services, as specified by the vessel owner. For nonresident juridical persons, all exports of foreign currency require an NBU license. Resident natural persons are permitted to import domestic currency up to HRV 1,000 upon oral declaration; a written customs declaration is required for amounts in excess of HRV 1,000. Nonresident natural persons may import domestic currency, provided that it was previously exported from Ukraine. An individual NBU permit is required above these limits. Resident juridical persons may import up to HRV 3,000 with written customs declaration, as well as proceeds received abroad if accompanied by supporting cashier documents. Non- resident juridical persons require an individual NBU license. Resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to import up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash and/or checks issued by foreign banks upon oral declaration. Imports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) resources previously exported legally from Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash; (3) up to the equivalent of $50,000 in checks issued by foreign banks and nonbanking institutions; and (4) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots. Special authorization of the NBU is required above these limits. Natural persons in transit may import up to $30,000 in cash or monetary instruments and up to 1,000 grams of bank metals, subject to documentary evidence of the transit nature of the travel. Resident juridical persons are permitted to import foreign currencies and bank met- als upon written customs declaration, provided that the amounts were previously exported legally; additional amounts require supporting cashier documents. Nonresident juridical persons owning, leasing, or chartering transportation facilities are allowed to import foreign currencies up to the equivalent of $50,000 upon written declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Certain conditions apply to these accounts. Yes. A license from the NBU is required, except when the account is opened during a temporary stay abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in cases where an obligation to a nonresident exists. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Resident juridical persons of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, the Russian Federation, and Uzbekistan who open accounts with authorized Ukrainian banks must have approval from their respective central banks to open an account in Ukraine. Resident natural persons of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, and the Russian Federation are required to have approval from their country's central bank in order to open accounts in Ukraine, except during a temporary stay on the territory of Ukraine (for the purposes of study, medical treatment, employment). Resident natural persons of Uzbekistan must have approval from their central bank to open any account in Ukraine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 990 UKRAINE A nonresident investor may credit a foreign currency account with the following: (1) funds transferred from abroad for domestic investments; (2) income (dividends) received by a nonresident investor from domestic investment activities, including those from unincorpo- rated joint activities and from transactions in securities; and (3) funds returned as a result of the termination of a nonresident domestic investment activity. Nonresident investors may debit foreign currency accounts for the following purposes: (1) domestic investment activities (including reinvestments); (2) settlements with customs authorities in cases provided for by current legislation; (3) transfers abroad of income (dividends) received from domestic investment activities and of investments in the event of termination; and (4) payments for services of an authorized bank servicing an account (via procedures specified by current legislation). Funds may be credited to and debited from accounts opened to support activities, such as cooperative production and other joint activities with the participation of unincorporated nonresident investors, exclusively for purposes prescribed by agreements (contracts) on joint investment activity, including distribution of income between parties to an arrange- ment (contract) with consideration for requirements of current Ukrainian legislation. Nonresident investors may credit domestic currency accounts at an authorized bank with the following: (1) funds obtained from sales of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange that have been received from a foreign investment; (2) funds received as income (dividends) from domestic investment activity, including from unincorporated jo int activities and from transactions with securities; (3) funds received as a result of the termination of a nonresident domestic investment activity; and (4) funds received from other transactions specified by current legislation. A nonresident investor may debit a domestic currency account only for the following pur- poses: (1) reinvestments in Ukraine; (2) acquisition of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange for subsequent transfer abroad of income and dividends from domestic investment activities; (3) settlements with customs, tax, and other authorities in cases provided for by current legislation; (4) settlements with residents in joint investment activities in compliance with the requirements of current legislation; (5) payments for ser- vices of an authorized bank servicing an account (via procedures specified by current legis- lation); and (6) other payments that are prescribed by investment agreements (arrange- ments, contracts) and that do not conflict with current legislation. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign company, firm, or international organization established without the status of a legal entity, through which a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. P accounts may be credited with the proceeds from current international transactions from any economic activity in Ukraine. "N" accounts may be opened for official representative offices and representative offices of nonresident legal entities that represent their interests in Ukraine but do not engage in en- trepreneurial activities in the territory of Ukraine; representative offices of foreign banks; and organizations or institutions (program or project administration groups) that implement international or technical assistance programs and projects. The holders of N accounts are regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as resi- dents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited with funds by selling foreign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlements associated with the maintenance of the representative office, including embassies and consulates; for purposes stipulated by the charter of the international organization; or for an organization or institution (program or project administration group) to introduce international assistance programs and projects or international assistance. All N account holders may purchase foreign exchange on the in- terbank currency market to transfer funds abroad to the account of the relevant body whose interests they represent, including interest accrued on the balance in the account. P account holders may (1) convert and transfer to a nonresident legal person (which they represent) the proceeds from transactions effected in Ukraine for the sale of goods and services, interest accrued on deposit accounts and balances in such a type P account, and the balance in an account when ceasing activities in Ukraine; and (2) credit to their own account in foreign currency funds designated for labor compensation of nonresident em- ployees and for business trips and representative office expenses abroad. Holders of N ac- counts may use funds from these accounts to purchase foreign currencies on the Ukrainian Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 991 interbank currency exchange for the purpose of transferring them to (1) the account of the appropriate authority of a foreign state or the account of the nonresident juridical person whose interests are represented in Ukraine by the mission (transfers may also be made in the event of termination of the mission's activities, as confirmed by the appropriate docu- ments); or (2) their own foreign currency account with an authorized bank for compensa- tion of work performed by nonresident employees, for business travel, and for entertain- ment expenses abroad. Nonresident natural persons may convert and transfer abroad funds from hry vnia- denominated current accounts. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports To purchase foreign exchange in group 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenclature on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange and transfer it abroad to pay for imports, resi- dents must provide the bank with pertinent import contracts. In addition, a resident needs to obtain a certificate from the STA confirming information on the resident's bank account and registration as a taxpayer. A certificate from the STA is also required to transfer any foreign exchange to accounts of nonresidents registered in offshore zones. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is not mandatory but may be undertaken by the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the request of nonresidents. Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Nontariff measures are limited to those carried out for national safety and environmental reasons. There are three customs duty categories with a trade-weighted average rate of about 5% (including energy imports). The first category (preferred duty rate) applies to goods from countries with which Ukraine has a free trade agreement, imports from developing coun- tries, and imports from countries that have a preferential agreement with Ukraine. The sec- ond category (concessional duty rate) applies to imports from countries that have entered into MFN agreements with Ukraine. The third category applies to imports from other sources. A VAT of 20% is levied on most imports, and some imports are subject to excise taxes. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must repatriate all foreign exchange proceeds through domestic commercial banks within 90 days of shipment. An NBU license is required if the repatriation period for export proceeds exceeds 90 days. There is a 50% surrender requirement for resident juridical persons with respect to foreign currency in group 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenclature. Proceeds must be chan- neled for sale through the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 992 UKRAINE Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas Inspection is not mandatory but may be undertaken by the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the request of residents. Goods subject to voluntary export restraints or other international agreements and those falling under the "special export regime"—coal, precious metal scrap, and alcoholic spir- its—are also subject to export quotas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, freely provided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, sales must take place through the agricultural commodity exchange. Export contract prereg- istration is limited to goods subject to voluntary export restraints or antidumping actions. Registration of exports is automatic and for statistical purposes only. Export taxes Taxes are applied to exports of sunflower seeds, livestock, skins, and hides. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits A nonresident requires a certificate from the STA stating that there are no outstanding tax liabilities associated with the underlying transaction. Income from domestic investments may be transferred abroad without restriction upon confirmation and payment of taxes due. Resident and nonresident natural persons leaving as tourists and on personal business are allowed to export up to the equivalent of $1,000 in cash or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. A written customs declaration is required for exports of (1) foreign currency, checks, and bank metals previously imported legally into Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $5,000 accompanied by a certificate from an authorized Ukrainian bank and drawn from an account, purchased from a bank teller (only for resident natural persons), in traveler's checks, or as a Visa travel money card; (3) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots; and (4) for nonresident natural persons, checks issued by foreign banks and nonbanking institutions. An individual NBU license is required for export of resources exceeding these limits. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Resident natural persons may freely transfer foreign currency abroad for current noncom- mercial transactions as defined in current legislation. Depending on the purpose of the transfer, transfers in excess of established norms require an NBU license. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Residents may use abroad cards issued by Ukrainian banks. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds, except those of a few organizations with international operations, such as the national airlines (i.e., those enterprises licensed by the NBU to open and use some funds from an account abroad for their maintenance), are subject to repatriation requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 993 Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be registered. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be transacted in Ukraine once they have been registered with the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. Foreign securities offered for transactions in Ukraine must be placed with a depository in the country of their origin. Foreign securi- ties offered for transaction in Ukraine must be listed on the stock exchange, or they must be cleared for transaction in the trading information system in the country of their origin and be listed with one of the following stock exchanges: the American Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, or the London Stock Ex- change. Persons offering foreign securities for sale in Ukraine must provide Ukrainian in- vestors with the opportunity to inspect the issuance prospectus and the issuer's report for the most recent fiscal year. Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be registered. Bond transactions with nonresidents may be carried out on a contractual basis only by resident authorized banks that have executed the appropriate agreements with the NBU. Authorized banks acquire bonds on instructions of nonresidents at auctions conducted by the NBU. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents A resident issuer may place securities outside Ukraine upon receipt of the appropriate per- mit from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Transactions in foreign currencies in group 1 of the NBU foreign exchange nomenclature under the terms of a forward contract and transactions with foreign currency derivatives (futures, options, etc.) are prohibited. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required if the repayment deadline exceeds 90 days. Financial credits All financial credits must be registered with the NBU. By residents to nonresidents An NBU license and written permission are required for banks and financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents Credit agreements must be registered with the NBU. Such registration is not required for commercial banks if the credits have a maturity of one year or less. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 994 UKRAINE Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Effective January 17, 2001, an NBU license and written permission are required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Direct investments by residents abroad (including resident acquisitions of foreign securities in Ukraine and abroad) are subject to individual NBU licenses. The acquisition of foreign securities by a resident is considered a portfolio investment and requires a one-time individual NBU license. Acquisitions of interest in a Ukrainian enterprise (including through the acquisition of secu- rities) by nonresident investors must be registered. State registration of foreign investments is enforced by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Crimean Republic and by state administrations of the oblasts and of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol after the investments are undertaken. Foreign investments in Ukraine may be made in any currency that is freely convertible, according to the NBU foreign exchange nomenclature, and used for payments in interna- tional transactions. Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are re- quired in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities require a license from the MOF, and investments in the banking sector require a license from the NBU. The transfer of proceeds, after payment of taxes due, is not restricted. These transactions are considered foreign direct investments and are subject to a one-time individual NBU license. Acquisitions and terminations of property rights are determined by the country in which the property is located. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are considered domestic capital investments by nonresidents and must be registered as direct investments. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required. To residents from nonresidents Natural persons are not allowed to obtain loans in foreign currency. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfers by nonresident natural persons are not restricted after settlement of tax liabilities. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Transfers by nonresident natural persons are unrestricted. Borrowing abroad Loan agreements exceeding one year require registration with the NBU. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 995 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A banking license and written NBU permission are required. Lending locally in foreign exchange A banking license and written NBU permission are required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Effective January 16, 2001, different reserve requirements apply to deposits, depending on the type and currency of the funds. An NBU license is required. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange positions are set in accordance with standards established by the NBU. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Diversified mutual funds are prohibited from (1) acquiring or investing additionally in shares and bonds of foreign issuers cleared for trading on organized stock exchanges of foreign countries in amounts exceeding 20% of the mutual fund 's total value; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in other assets, as allowed by legislation, in amounts exceeding 5% of the mutual fund 's assets; (3) acquiring or exchanging securities issued by persons, asset management companies, or depositories that are affiliated with the mutual fund; and (4) acquiring or investing additionally in securities with income guaranteed by foreign gov- ernments in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets. If a closed undiversified mutual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated as a venture fund. Only juridical persons may be participants in a venture fund. Diversified mutual funds are prohibited from (1) holding more than 30% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets in monetary resources, bank deposit accounts, savings certifi- cates, and/or bonds issued by commercial banks; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in securities of one issuer in amounts exceeding 5% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets; (3) acquiring or investing additionally in government securities with income guaran- teed by the Cabinet of Ministers in amounts exceeding 25% of the total value of the mutual fund's assets (investment of a mutual fund's resources in less than three types of govern- ment securities is prohibited); (4) acquiring or investing additionally in securities of local governments in amounts exceeding 10% of the total value of assets; (5) acquiring or invest- ing additionally in bonds of enterprises issued by residents (except commercial banks) in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets; and (5) acquiring or investing additionally more than 40% of the total value of the mutual fund in shares of Ukrainian issuers. If a closed undiversified mutual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities, and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated as a venture fund. Only juridical persons may be participants of a venture fund. Assets of a mutual fund are managed by an asset management company (any juridical per- son created pursuant to Ukrainian legislation may be an asset management company). The total value of the assets of a mutual fund that are managed by a single asset management company may not exceed an amount set by the commission's statutes and regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 996 UKRAINE Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2001 November 16. A limit of 5% was imposed on commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions. January 17. Banks were required to obtain written permission from the NBU to make guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities available to nonresidents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 16. Different reserve requirements apply to deposits, depending on the type and currency of the funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. dirham. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the U.A.E. dirham is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1 within margins of ±7.25%. The U.A.E. dirham has maintained a stable relationship with the dollar, the intervention currency, since November 1997 at Dh 3.6730 per $1 (buying rate) and Dh 3.6725 per $1 (selling rate). No. No. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and to sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a daily limit of $3 million a day on pur- chases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. This facility is designed to provide temporary dirham liquidity to commercial banks. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription requirements, but settlements with Israel are prohibited. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 997 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 998 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts may be maintained in offshore affiliates of domestic banks. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened by banks and trade, financial, and industrial companies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local institutions in foreign countries; and by embassies and diplomatic agencies. These accounts may also be opened by U.A.E. citizens working abroad and by nonresident for- eigners working in the United Arab Emirates. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Only licensed parties may engage in import trade. Importers may import only the goods specified in their licenses. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a few products are prohibited for health, security, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Most imports are subject to a customs duty of 4% of the c.i.f. value. Imports of alcohol and tobacco are subject to higher rates. Imports originating from members of the GCC are exempt from duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 999 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents At least 51% of the shares of U.A.E. corporations must be held by U.A.E. nationals or or- ganizations. Companies domiciled in free zones are exempt from this requirement and may be up to 100% foreign owned. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by GCC residents are exempt from controls. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of some mutual funds is permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. At least 51% of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. GCC nationals are permitted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors; and (2) up to 100% of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. GCC nationals are also permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law. In free zones, foreign ownership is permitted up to 100%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions No. Yes. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the UAECB equal to 30% of their dirham placements with, or loans to, nonresident banks when these transactions have a remaining maturity of one year or less. The profits of cer- tain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1000 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are not allowed to lend more than 7% of their capital base to one foreign institution. Also, they are not allowed to invest more than 25% of their own funds in shares or bonds issued by commercial companies. Loans to foreign governments with a first-class credit rating and placement in such countries' financial institutions are exempt from such limits. In banks by nonresidents Nonresidents may not acquire more than 20% of the share capital of any national bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and britannias are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. On February 5, 2002, the United Kingdom notified the IMF that, pursuant to relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions, except under the authority of a license granted by the Treasury, it is an offence to (1) make any funds or related financial services available to the benefit of any person associated with terrorism or the Taliban; or (2) hold funds by, for, or on behalf of any person or entity who is or may be a terrorist. In addition, the notification states that banks have been instructed to freeze all funds and other financial resources of those individuals and organizations designated by the Taliban Sanctions Committee or any person or entity associated with the Taliban, and to freeze all funds and other financial resources of persons or entities designated as terrorists. In accordance with UN and/or EU restrictions, the United Kingdom applies exchange re- strictions against Iraq, the Taliban, and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism; on transfers to or for the benefit of the UNITA movement in Angola; and on specific assets of certain persons related to important government functions in Myanmar, certain persons associated with the former government of the Republic of Yugoslavia, and certain members of the government of Zimbabwe. There are EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain textiles and clothing under the MFA; certain steel products from Russia, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine; and certain footwear and ceramic products from China. There are EU dual-surveillance licensing arrangements for imports of certain footwear products from Vietnam, and for imports of steel products from the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. In accordance with EU arrangements, there are prior surveillance licensing arrangements for imports of certain 1001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1002 UNITED KINGDOM Payments arrears No. nontextile products from China and certain steel products from all sources. Other import restrictions are in effect for public safety reasons and to satisfy international obligations. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 or more for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of National Heritage. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list No. No. No. Yes. Open general licenses Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an OGL. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures UNITED KINGDOM 1003 The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are maintained under various EU bilateral agreements with third countries that are not members of the MFA; certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements; autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakhstan; EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic; and EU-wide quotas on two categories of goods originating in China. A double-checking system is in operation with the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic on certain steel products. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few articles may be imported under OGLs (i.e., without limit as to quantity or value). Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accordance with international agreements. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry may prohibit a proposed transfer of control of an important U.K. manufacturing undertaking to a nonresident where the transfer of a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1004 UNITED KINGDOM Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits substantial part of it is considered contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensation. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to parliamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. No. No. No. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.15% non-interest bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. The level of the deposit is based on the average of reported eligible liabilities over a six-month period in excess of £400 mil- lion. This rule applies to banks as well as to building societies. There is currently no special deposit call. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 5. The United Kingdom notified the IMF of the implementation of legislation in accordance with EU and UN Security Council resolutions regarding funds and transfers in connection with the Taliban and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The United States is a member of the NAFTA. Administration of control No. International security restrictions The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) administers economic sanctions programs involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, Sudan, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers, as specified under the following: (1) the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, (2) the Iranian Assets Control Regulations and the Iranian Transactions Regulations, (3) the Iraqi Sanctions Reg- ulations, (4) the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, (5) the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, (6) the Sudanese Sanctions Regulations, (7) the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Kosovo Sanctions Regulations and residual provisions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Bosnian Serb-Controlled Areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Sanctions Regulations, (8) Executive Order No. 13129 ("Blocked Property and Prohibited Trans- actions with the Taliban"), (9) the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations, (10) the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, (11) the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations, and (12) the Narcotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations and Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Sanctions, respectively. The Treasury has the administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of most sanctions targets. Although the comprehensive sanctions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remain in place, the Treasury authorizes most transactions with the Republic of Montenegro. Trade and financial sanctions against Serbia, except for those sanctions aimed at specific individuals, have been lifted. The Treasury has lifted, with some excep- tions, the travel and petroleum bans that were in place. Funds and other property blocked under U.S. sanctions programs remain blocked until provision is made to address claims or encumbrances with respect to such funds and property, including the claims of the suc- cessor states of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Effective June 29, 2001, accounts of persons who threaten the international stabilization efforts in the western Balkans were blocked. 1005 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1006 UNITED STATES The Treasury also prohibits new investments in Myanmar, under the Burmese Sanctions Regulations; restricts certain offshore transactions involving strategic merchandise to cer- tain countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations; prohibits donative transfers, or those that pose a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States by the government of Syria, under the Terrorism List Governments Sanctions Regulations; prohibits imports into the United States from certain entities that proliferate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, under the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations; and asserts protective jurisdiction over property and property interests of the government of the Rus- sian Federation that are in the United States and directly related to the implementation of the Highly Enriched Uranium Agreements under Executive Order No. 13159 ("Blocked Property of the Government of the Russian Federation Relating to the Disposal of Highly Enriched Uranium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons"). Effective January 17, 2001, certain sanctions that had been enacted against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with respect to the crisis in Kosovo—except those against some senior officials —were lifted. Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in- ternational transactions. Foreign assets control regulations permit most transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and its nationals and have established a review procedure for the importation of goods therefrom. Under Executive Order 13224 (Sep- tember 23, 2001), the assets of the following are blocked, and certain transactions with them are prohibited: specified foreign persons and foreign persons later determined to have committed or to pose a significant risk of committing acts of terrorism that threaten na- tional security, foreign policy, the U.S. economy, or the security of U.S. nationals; persons owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of terrorists or their supporters; persons providing assistance or financial, material, or technological support for, or financial or other services to, or in support of terrorists or acts of terrorism; and persons otherwise associated with any of the foregoing persons. The Treasury administers economic sanctions programs on the basis of UN Security Coun- cil Resolutions 1214 (1998), 1267 (1999), 1333 (2001), and 1363 (2001) involving certain direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Iraq, Libya, the UNITA move- ment in Angola and its senior officials, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and persons associated with terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No controls are imposed except for the countries and groups of persons to which international security restrictions apply. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or negotiable bearer securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs UNITED STATES 1007 Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. The accounts of the following nations and entities are blocked: Cuba and Cuban nationals; the Islamic Republic of Iran; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials; foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process; foreign terrorist organizations; persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia; specially designated narcotics traffickers; the Taliban; effective June 29, 2001, foreign persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the west- ern Balkans; and, effective September 23, 2001, foreign persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism. Funds associated with Highly Enriched Uranium agreements concluded with the Russian Federation are also blocked. Certain accounts previously blocked pursuant to economic sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea remain blocked, notwithstanding an easing of such sanctions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of most goods and services originating in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, or Sudan or that were produced or provided by certain entities that prolif- erate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Treasury. Imports from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require prior notification to and approval from the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The importation of diamonds from Angola and, effective January 19, 2001, all rough diamonds from Sierra Leone is prohibited, unless they have passed through the certificate-of-origin process in these countries. Effective May 23, 2001, the importation of all rough diamonds from Liberia is prohibited. Bilateral import quota agreements on textiles and clothing exist with numerous countries. These are to be phased out over 10 years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products into the WTO regime over a 10-year transition period, and the gradual phasing out of quan- titative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. Integration is taking place in four stages: in 1995, 16% of the volume of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year 4 and year 7, an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, w i ll be integrated; and after year 10, all remaining products w i ll be integrated. With regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States w i ll be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberalization during each year of the transition period. Import tariffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of beverages and tobacco, textiles and clothing, and leather and footwear. As a result of the Uruguay Round, all tariff lines are bound. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1008 UNITED STATES Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. The Department of Commerce (DOC) controls the export and reexport of dual-use prod- ucts, technology, and software for reasons of national security, foreign policy, nonprolifera- tion, and short supply. Except for shipment to U.S. territories and possessions, which are treated as part of the United States, most exports outside the United States are subject to the Export Administration Regulations. Several agencies of the U.S. government maintain export controls on products other than dual-use articles and services. For example, the Treasury licenses third country trade in strategic materials with former communist bloc nations and controls certain financial transactions, as well as exports of goods, services, and technology to specific countries and recipients. Likewise, the Department of Agricul- ture controls the export of livestock, dairy, and poultry items. Ammunition for military use may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The DOC administers controls on exports of crime control items, detection equipment, and related technologies to most countries that depend on the commodities. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. The control applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be re- stricted by laws on inward direct investment and on establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to (1) nonresident issu- ers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues exemption by non- resident issuers. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. The control applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1009 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The Johnson Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have de- faulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The Act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. New investments in Myanmar are prohibited. There are controls on certain transactions with or involving Cuba and Cuban nationals; the Islamic Republic of Iran; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials; foreign persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism; persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia; specially designated narcotics traffickers; the Taliban; and, effective June 29, 2001, foreign persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the western Balkans. Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. This control applies only to investments that may be restricted by laws on inward direct investment and establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign acquisitions of control that threaten to impair national security may be suspended or prohibited. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are controls on certain transactions with or involving Cuba and Cuban nationals, the Is- lamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially des- ignated drug traffickers. The Omnibus Trade Act contains a provision, the Exon-Florio Amendment, authorizing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, other than the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Exon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of agricultural land by foreign nationals or by corporations in which foreign owners have an interest of at least 10% or substantial control must be reported to the De- partment of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose various controls on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Banks are subject to prudential oversight in these areas. Open foreign exchange position limits The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential oversight. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1010 UNITED STATES Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2001 January 17. Certain sanctions that had been enacted against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with respect to the crisis in Kosovo—except those against some senior officials —were lifted, although the assets of persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia remain blocked. June 29. Accounts of persons who threaten the international stabilization efforts in the western Balkans were blocked. September 23. In accordance with Executive Order 13224, the assets of persons associated with terrorists were blocked, and certain transactions with them were prohibited. Nonresident accounts June 29. The accounts of persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the western Balkans were blocked. Imports and import payments January 19. The importation of all rough diamonds from Sierra Leone that have not passed through the certificate-of-origin process of that country was prohibited. May 23. The importation of all rough diamonds from Liberia was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of January 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band Exchange tax The exchange rate for the Uruguayan peso is determined in the exchange market, where the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) intervenes—at either extreme of the band only —to ensure that the rate remains within a band. The exchange rate band is depreciated daily at a predetermined monthly rate, and the CBU announces its intervention buying and selling rates daily. The rate of depreciation against the dollar is 0.6% a month and the total width of the band is 3%. Effective June 9, 2001, the rate of depreciation was increased to 1.2% a month and the band was widened to 6%. Effective January 5, 2002, the rate of depreciation was further increased to 2.4% a month, and the band was temporarily widened to 12%. This widening of the band is to be effective through end-June 2002. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, with the exception of those by the CBU and official banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in dollars. A bilateral payments arrangement with Cuba is inoperative. Payments between Uruguay and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Operations are carried out through banks and finance houses that have been authorized by the CBU. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. 1011 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1012 URUGUAY Controls on external trade Residents may freely import and export gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for industrial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs during that period. Under MERCOSUR, a CET exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. There are 11 tax rates. Initially, the maximum rate was 20%. However, a surcharge imposed in 1997 raised this maximum to 23%. Uruguay was granted an exemption to the surcharge for capital and certain intermediate goods. Regionally produced capital goods and tele- communications equipment are subject to tariffs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR are permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET until 2001, at which time they are to become subject to the CET. In addition, for Uruguay, the tariffs on capital goods, telecommunications equipment, buses, and trucks will not be subject to the CET until 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries have been generally eliminated, with certain exceptions. Duties on wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices," which provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 1013 State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and its derivatives are subject to a state monopoly. these goods, depending on the difference between the minimum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Occasionally, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considera- tions), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to a 5% tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The Capital Market Securities and Negotiable Obligations Law provides a framework in which financial markets are largely self-regulating but supervised by the CBU. Mutual and private pension funds, as well as insurance companies, are regulated separately. Although private pension funds must hold an implicit legal minimum ratio of 55% in the form of government securities, the transitory maintenance of time deposits with the CBU is permit- ted without limitations. In the public sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own bylaws, and the central government and departmental governments are covered by their own procedures, which are more restrictive. On collective investment securities The Mutual Funds Law defines instruments and contains several requirements regarding conflict of interest and safekeeping. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment n.r. No. The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Investment requires identical treatment of domestic and foreign investors and free transfer of capital. It provides for certain exemp- tions from wealth and value-added taxes and for the reduction of social security taxes to a 3% rate. It establishes national priorities and provides corresponding incentives. It exempts from tariffs imported inputs whose domestic production has been reduced or discontinued. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1014 URUGUAY Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. There is a minimum mandatory reserve requirement (10%) for deposits in local currency and in foreign currency, except for 30- to 180-day deposits, on which the local currency deposit reserve requirement is 4% and the foreign currency deposit reserve requirement is 10%. These reserve requirements are for currency holdings and notes, and demand deposits at the CBU in their respective currencies. There is a minimum-interest bearing, mandatory reserve requirement of 10% on total deposits in local currency and other obligations cov- ered by the non-interest bearing reserve requirement regime. This reserve requirement may be met by a deposit at the CBU. There is also an interest-bearing reserve requirement of 11.5% on total deposits in foreign currency and other obligations covered by the non- interest bearing requirement regime, and it may be met by holding dollar-denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU, excluding those of nonresidents that apply to placements with nonresidents. Deposits placed by nonresidents are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Also, when maintaining these reserves, the balance at the CBU must be not less than 50% of the minimum mandatory reserve requirement. A ceiling is placed on the asset position of foreign or local currency of 150% of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets (i.e., nonperforming loans that are two years or more overdue, fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges). There is also a ceiling on the asset or liability position of foreign currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., future contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets. Insurance companies must hold a maximum of 5% of total assets, except for life insurance contracts, where companies may hold 20% of required provisions. Private pension funds are permitted to invest only in domestic issuer securities, including those issued abroad. These funds must deal in domestic formal markets in accordance with CBU regulations. Private pension funds must hold a minimum ratio of total assets of 55% in the form of gov- ernment securities. In the public sector, the type of operations permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own bylaws, and the central government and departmental governments are covered by their own procedures, which are more restrictive. Insurance companies must match assets with liabilities. No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 9. The rate of depreciation of the peso against the dollar was increased to 1.2% a month and the band was widened to 6%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange arrangement URUGUAY 1015 Changes During 2002 January 5. The rate of depreciation against the dollar was increased to 2.4% a month from 1.2% a month. January 5. The width of the band of the exchange rate was temporarily increased to 12% from 6%. This band width is to be effective through end-June 2002. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uzbekistan is the Uzbek sum. Prior to July 1, 2001, the exchange arrangement consisted of four exchange rates: (1) the official exchange rate for centralized exports and government debt service; (2) the over-the- counter (OTC) exchange rate at commercial banks for surrendered portions of proceeds from noncentralized exports and licensed imports of nonconsumer goods; (3) the OTC rate at commercial banks for export proceeds that are not subject to the surrender requirement and licensed imports of consumer goods; and (4) the exchange bureau market rate for per- sonal cash transactions. Effective July 1, 2001, the two OTC rates at the commercial banks were unified with the establishment of an OTC-based interbank auction, in which rates are determined by supply and demand. Effective November 1, 2001, the official exchange rate was merged with the OTC rate and all foreign exchange operations are effected at rates determined by supply and demand. At the same time, the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) established a new official exchange rate to be used for statistical, accounting, and customs valuation purposes and for conver- sion of surrender proceeds from strategic exports. This rate takes into account the OTC rate, the behavior of the money supply, and the domestic inflation rate. In addition, there is an active curb market for foreign exchange. The CBU fixes the official rate on a weekly basis, taking into account the OTC exchange rate, the behavior of money supply, and the domestic inflation rate. Exchange rates are fixed in terms of the dollar. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined from their cross rates against the dollar in the international market. Effective July 1, 2001, the 5% tax on the purchase of foreign currency was abolished. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Transactions with other coun- tries are settled in convertible currencies. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. 1016 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1017 Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Uzbekistan maintains agreements with Azerbaijan, Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. Agreements with Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, and Malaysia are inoperative. Yes. These are effected on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Barter agreements and open accounts There are agreements with the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan involving the exchange of natural gas and petroleum products for electricity. Administration of control Transactions in foreign currency are administered by the CBU and authorized banks, the State Tax Committee, the State Customs Committee, and the Ministry of Finance. The primary responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) are to regulate foreign economic activities and to represent Uzbekistan in foreign economic fo- rums; to attract foreign investments and provide for their effective use; to develop foreign economic relations; and to certify imports and exports. The Ministry of Justice registers enterprises with foreign investments. Effective August 1, 2001, the licensing and quota system that operated in the foreign exchange market was abolished. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Gold is imported and exported on the basis of licenses issued by the MFER. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500 may be exported without restric- tion. The export of more than this amount requires permission from either an authorized bank that has a general license to operate in foreign exchange or the CBU. Effective July 1, 2001, the customs charge of 1% on imports of cash foreign exchange in amounts in excess of $10,000 by resident or nonresident individuals was abolished. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted All enterprises, regardless of ownership, are allowed to open accounts in domestic and foreign currencies at various domestic banks. Individuals are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. The CBU must approve the opening of accounts abroad by individuals and legal entities that are residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan. CBU approval is not required for accounts opened by resident individuals during temporary stays abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1018 UZBEKISTAN Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Importers must present a contract that has been preregistered with the MFER before they may purchase foreign exchange. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts The opening of foreign exchange accounts by nonresident individuals and by foreign diplomatic, international, commercial, and other offices located in Uzbekistan that do not engage in commercial business is allowed without CBU permission. The opening of Uzbek sum accounts by nonresident individuals and foreign diplomatic, international, and other offices located in Uzbekistan that do not engage in commercial activities is allowed without CBU permission. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Blocked accounts Importers must present documents conforming the legitimacy of foreign exchange purchases and a contract that was preregistered with the MFER before they may purchase foreign exchange. Local currency accounts of importers may be reserved (with their consent) by banks while awaiting conversion into foreign exchange. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Advance payments for imports of up to 15% of the contract value against a counterpart bank guarantee from the correspondent bank are permitted, but may not exceed $100,000. Advance payments exceeding $100,000 require the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers. Advance deposits to specific offshore zones and for service payments to these zones are prohibited. Importers who wish to purchase foreign exchange to make an advance payment under an import contract must deposit the equivalent amount in sum. This deposit is released only after a certification is made that the goods have actually been imported, but import contracts financed with centralized sources in sum are exempt from this certification requirement. Importers are entitled at their discretion to engage consulting firms for evaluation of con- tracts and execution of preshipment inspections followed by registration of the contracts with the MFER or to apply to the MFER for evaluation and registration of contracts based on the established procedure without a preshipment inspection. Preshipment inspection is required for imports of meat and edible meat by-products; dairy products; oil seeds and fruits; alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages; tobacco products; equipment, mechanical devices, and electrical machinery; and equipment imported for the implementation of pro- jects included in the Republic of Uzbekistan Investment Program under contracts exceeding $10,000 in total value. Letters of credit Documentary letters of credit are used in import settlements. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Contracts are required to be preregistered with the MFER only if they are financed through the conversion of sum funds into a freely convertible currency and under lines of credit extended by international and foreign financial institutions against Uzbek government guarantees in accordance with government decrees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly UZBEKISTAN 1019 Imports of medicines require import licenses from the Ministry of Health; imports of weap- ons, precious metals and gems, uranium, and other radioactive substances require import licenses from the MFER; imports of foreign movies, videos, and audio recordings require import licenses from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Imports of ozone-depleting sub- stances require permits issued by the State Committee for Environmental Protection. Foreign nationals require a permit from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection to engage in import activities. Imports of the following are prohibited: printed matter, manuscripts, plates, drawings, pho- tographs, photographic film, negatives, movies, video or audio recordings, phonograph records, and audio materials aimed at undermining state and social order; violating the country's territorial integrity, political independence, or state sovereignty; or promoting war, terrorism, violence, national exclusivity, religious hatred, or racism and various forms of racism (antisemitism, fascism). Imports of materials with a pornographic content are also prohibited. A list of consumer goods whose importation is "not recommended" is maintained. Effective August 1, 2001, the mechanism of issuing licenses from the CBU to enterprises and organizations importing finished consumer goods, which gave them priority in ex- changing Uzbek sum for a freely convertible currency, was abolished. Enterprises and organizations importing socially important consumer goods and medicines must purchase foreign exchange in the OTC foreign exchange market through authorized banks within the quarterly limits set for the banks. Tenders are held for imports of major food items (e.g., sugar and wheat). Open tenders are held for imports of medicines to provide emergency medical care based on a list established by the Ministry of Health, and also for imports of medicines for state needs. Closed tenders are held for imports of vaccines, serums, anesthetics, and narcotics. The simple average customs tariff rate is 10.72% and the weighted average tariff rate in 2001 was 1.5%, based on total import volume, or 5%, based on the total import volume excluding duty-exempt items. Effective March 1, 2001, ad valorem customs duty rates were unified at four levels: zero, 10%, 20%, and 30% of the customs value. The duty rate for used cars, however, is 100%. Of the 1,241 items of the foreign economic activity product classification (at the four-digit level), the zero rate applies to 497 items, the 10% rate to 399 items, the 20% rate to 104 items, and the 30% rate to 241 items. In addition, an excise tax of between 5% and 90% is levied on 28 groups of imported goods. A 20% tax is applied to imports of goods bought in duty-free shops in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Goods shipped in by shuttle traders are subject to a tax of 50% of the value in excess of $1,000. The rate for goods sent to individuals is 50%, without the exemption that is applied to duty- free imports. Imports of foodstuffs deemed to be socially important are centralized through a specialized joint-stock company (GAK "ozoziqovqatta'minot"). Imports of socially important food- stuffs aimed at supplying public and state needs are effected by the "Uzbeksavdo" joint- stock company. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Effective July 1, 2001, 50% of proceeds in foreign currencies from exports of nontradi- tional goods and services must be surrendered to authorized banks at the free OTC market exchange rate, which is determined by supply and demand. On the same date, microfirms and small and medium-sized enterprises are allowed to retain foreign currency proceeds from exports of their own products and services. Proceeds in foreign currencies from centralized exports of cotton fiber must be surren- dered to the CBU at the central bank exchange rate. Effective April 1, 2002, the surrender requirement strategic goods was reduced to 50% from 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1020 UZBEKISTAN Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses With quotas Effective July 1, 2001, small and medium-sized enterprises are permitted to export their own products and services for cash foreign currency through payment offices of bank insti- tutions with foreign exchange proceeds being credited to their accounts in accordance with the established procedure. Effective February 1, 2002, economic entities may export goods and services for convertible currencies without prepayment or opening an LC, provided that there is a guarantee from the buyer's banks or an insurance policy protecting export contracts against political and commercial risks (previously, exports required a 100% pre- payment, the opening of an LC, or a foreign bank guarantee). Foreign trading houses are allowed to export their own goods on a consignment basis. Yes. Yes. Exports of weapons, precious metals, uranium, and other radioactive substances require licenses from the MFER. Exports of certain animals and plants require licenses from the MFER that are issued on the basis of a permit from the State Conservation Committee. Professional activities abroad by Uzbek citizens require a permit from the Ministry of La- bor and Social Protection. Exports of research data require licenses from the State Commit- tee on Science and Technology, and exports of works of art require licenses from the Min- istry of Cultural Affairs. Exports of antiques and works of art, ethanol, livestock and poultry, meat, powdered milk, raw hides, scrap metal, nonferrous scrap metal and waste, silkworm cocoons and raw silk, sugar, tea, vegetable oil, and wheat and flour products are banned. Exports of crude oil, gas condensate, linen and cotton fiber, and ferrous metals are subject to export licensing in the amount of established quotas. Exports of sugar, ethanol, vegeta- ble oil, wheat and flour products, meat and poultry, tea, raw hides and skins, dried milk, antiques, scrap metal, silkworm cocoons, and raw silk are prohibited. Export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Nonresident individuals are required to pay for travel services, including air and rail passenger transportation services, in foreign currencies. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona flde test Yes. Investment-related payments Effective July 1,2001, profits may be converted into foreign currency and repatriated. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2002, a limit of the equivalent of $750 was placed on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bureaus. On April 1, 2002, this limit was increased to $1,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1021 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports of services are subject to the same surrender requirements as those applying to proceeds from exports of goods. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The placement of securities of foreign issuers in Uzbekistan is based on an annual quota assigned by the Cabinet of Ministers, as determined by the law "On Securities and the Stock Market." These transactions are governed by the regulation "On the Procedure for the Admission, Registration, and Placement of Securities of Foreign Issuers on the Territory of the Repub- lic of Uzbekistan and of Uzbek Issuers Abroad." Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. Controls on credit operations All credit and guarantee operations are subject to controls. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investors may establish enterprises abroad upon decision of the legal entity's top manage- ment body. The MFER must be notified of the registration of an enterprise abroad. Investors may establish foreign investment enterprises (FIE), which are a form of direct investment, after their registration with the Ministry of Justice and its regional offices. En- terprises may be assigned FIE status subject to the following conditions: (1) the authorized capital of the enterprise must be at least the equivalent of $150,000; (2) one of the partici- pants in the enterprise must be a foreign legal entity; and (3) the share of foreign invest- ment must be at least 30% of the enterprise's authorized capital. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The Ministry of Justice and its regional offices supervise FIEs' compliance with their statu- tory obligations and the procedures for their registration and liquidation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1022 UZBEKISTAN Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks are allowed to make loans in foreign currencies, subject to the limit on the foreign currency open position. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. No. Changes During 2001 July L The two OTC exchange rates at the commercial banks were unified with the estab- lishment of an OTC-based interbank auction, in which rates are determined by supply and demand. July L The 5% exchange tax was abolished. November L The official exchange rate was merged with the OTC rate, and a new official exchange rate to be used for statistical, accounting, and customs valuation purposes and for conversion of surrender proceeds from strategic exports was established. Arrangements for payments and receipts July L The customs charge of 1% on imports of cash foreign exchange in amounts in excess of $10,000 by resident and nonresident individuals was abolished. August L The licensing and quota system that operated in the foreign exchange market was abolished. Imports and import payments March L Ad valorem customs duty rates were un if ied at four levels: zero, 10%, 20%, and 30% of the customs value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Exports and export proceeds UZBEKISTAN 1023 August 1. The system of issuing licenses from the CBU to enterprises and organizations importing finished consumer goods, which gave them priority in exchanging Uzbek sum for a freely convertible currency, was abolished. July L Small and medium-sized enterprises were permitted to export their own products and services for cash foreign currency through payment offices of bank institutions, with foreign exchange proceeds being credited to their accounts in accordance with the established procedure. July L Microfirms and small and medium-sized enterprises were allowed to retain foreign currency proceeds from exports of their own products and services. July L Fifty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies from exports of nontraditional goods and services were required to be surrendered to authorized banks at the free OTC market exchange rate, which is determined by supply and demand. July L Profits were allowed to be converted into foreign currency and repatriated. Changes During 2002 February L Economic entities were allowed to export goods and services for convertible currencies without prepayment or opening an LC, provided that there is a guarantee from the buyer's banks or an insurance policy protecting export contracts against political and commercial risks. April L The surrender requirement for strategic goods was reduced to 50% from 100%. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L A $750 l im it was placed on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bureaus. April L The limit on purchases of foreign exchange for personal use at foreign exchange bureaus was increased to $1,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vanuatu is the Vanuatu vatu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad The external value of the vatu is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions- weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies of Vanuatu's major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks U.S. dollars only. However, it also deals in Australian dollars; deutsche marks and French francs (through December 31, 2001; euros from January 1, 2002); Japanese yen; New Zealand dollars; and pounds sterling with other customers. The RBV quotes rates daily for the vatu against the above currencies. Buying and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted once a day within margins ranging between 0.25% and 0.30% around the middle rate. No. No. The RBV does not provide forward exchange contracts. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Vanuatu participates in the following arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrangement, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, PARTA, and PICTA. No. No. No. n.r. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 1024 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 1025 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts The decision to approve the convertibility of domestic currency accounts into foreign currency is left to commercial banks. Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs For verification purposes, all appropriate documentation must accompany requests for foreign settlement by commercial banks. The importation of frozen chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products. Yes. Bans on imports of animals and animal products from Europe and the United Kingdom as well as on chicken and poultry products from Australia are in effect for health reasons. n.r. n.r. Effective September 11, 2001, the RBV has the authority to restrict imports to the equiva- lent of US$250,000 an individual. The import duty structure consists of eight rates, ranging from zero to 30%. The rate on most basic items is 5%. Approved goods under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrangement, and the PARTA, PICTA, and PACER trade agreements may be imported duty free. These goods require certificates of origin issued to exporters and importers by the source member country. A 50% duty applies to certain imported products under the protected goods category. Additionally, a duty of VT 350 per liter is levied on fuel. Effective January 1, 2001, duties on meats, fruit juices, ice cream, and some types of soap were reduced to 45% from 50%. On that same date, duties on some types of paints and pigments were reduced to VT 315 from VT 350. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1026 VANUATU Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds n.r. n.r. n.r. The exportation of logs and flitches has been banned for environmental reasons. Under special circumstances, small parcels of logs may be exported if they cannot be processed by any company in Vanuatu. Any proposal to export logs requires approval of the Council of Ministers. Export permits—the issue of which is coordinated by the Environmental Unit and Forestry Department—are also required for sandalwood and rare or endangered species. For conservation purposes, exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, bSches-de-mer, mother-of-pearl, aquarium fish, crustaceans, and coconut crops are subject to authorization. Exports of copra and cocoa are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodi- ties Marketing Board (VCMB). Exports of kava may be undertaken by individuals, subject to authorization from the Quarantine Office. Exports of artifacts having a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. There are taxes on exports of logs, unworked shells, and wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark and sapwood or roughly squared. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers n.r. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 1027 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Imports and import payments Changes During 2001 January L Duties on imported meats, fruit juices, ice cream, and some forms of soap were reduced to 45% from 50%, and duties on some forms of paints and pigments were reduced to VT 315 from VT 350. September 11. The RBV was authorized to restrict imports to the equivalent of US$250,000 an individual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA (Position as of February 28, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1976. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela is the Venezuelan bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Prior to February 13, 2002, the Central Bank of Venezuela (CSV) operated a floating ex- change rate regime, under which the CBV intervened in the market and determined a refer- ence exchange rate daily. The central rate and the band around it, adjusted annually, were set, effective January 1, 2001, at Bs 700 per $1 and 7%, respectively (on January 1, 2002, the central rate was set at Bs 758 per $1 and the band was widened to 10%). Effective February 13, 2002, the CBV replaced the exchange band system and allowed the exchange rate of the bolivar to float freely. Accordingly, the exchange rate arrangement has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an arrangement with Malaysia. Payments between the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela and the other LAIA countries, and Jamaica may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the CBV. Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Yes. No. No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external public debt that is un- der litigation. The CBV participates in, regulates, and executes operations in the gold market. The export of nonmonetary gold and its alloys in any form (other than jewelry for personal use) requires prior authorization from the CBV. The CBV may authorize the export of gold bars up to 85% of local production; the remainder is supplied to the domestic market. Imports and exports of banknotes are subject to prior authorization from the CBV. 1028 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1029 On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts These accounts are not covered by the deposit insurance system. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. No. These apply only in cases of inheritance, preventive judicial measures, and narcotic trafficking activities. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Some imports are subject to licensing for environmental, health, or security reasons. Import licenses are also required on sugar cane, milk and its derivatives, and various types of oils and fats. Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense Ministry. Imports of nonmili- tary weapons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affairs and Justice. The importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. A number of agricultural products (142 tariff lines, or 2.12% of total lines) are subject to tariff quotas. There are m in imum prices for certain imports. There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Community. The tariffs on imported components for vehicles are 35% for passenger cars; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1030 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles, except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 35%; and 3% for vehicle components. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that in- cludes exemptions from customs tariffs. There are multiple trade agreements ranging from free trade with Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru (the Andean Community), Chile, and Mexico to partial scope agreements with Argentina, Brazil, the CARICOM and the CACM, Cuba, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago. There is a customs handling fee of 1%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes The state petroleum company is required to surrender its export proceeds to the CBV. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization from the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization from the CNV is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization by the CNV is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1031 Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are some regulations for market participants. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and professional services are re- served for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX, but must be registered with the SIEX, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the commercial code. The SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. Investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Owners of direct investments have the right to reexport the proceeds of liquidation; how- ever, the SIEX checks the performance of the commitments of foreign investors in accor- dance with national legislation. Under the debt-equity program, the registration of proceeds is allowed up to five years after the date of the last debt conversion. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks must report to the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis any transfer above $10,000, or its equivalent, to or from another country. Effective August 9, 2001, banks are not allowed to sell foreign exchange to nonresident companies except for purposes of direct investments, investments in public debt instru- ments, dividend repatriation, and payments for imports and services. There are limits regulated by the CBV in relation to foreign exchange position limits. Reserve requirements Reserve requirements of 17% apply to deposits, obligations, and debit operations. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Reserve requirements of 17% apply to deposits, obligations, and debit operations. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective August 14, 2001, the maximum open foreign exchange positions of commercial and universal banks and other authorized financial institutions is limited to 12.5% of their capital funds, and their maximum daily variations are limited to 12.5% of their foreign exchange positions. On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement January L The central rate and annual adjustment to the central rate were set at Bs 700 per $1 and 7%, respectively. Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1032 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Exchange arrangement August 9. Banks were allowed to sell foreign exchange to nonresident companies only for purposes of direct investments, investments in public debt instruments, dividend repatriation, and payments for imports and services. August 14. The maximum open foreign exchange positions of commercial and universal banks and other authorized financial institutions was limited to 12.5% of their capital funds, and their maximum daily variations were limited to 12.5% of their foreign exchange positions. Changes During 2002 January 1. The central rate and the annual adjustment of the central rate were set at Bs 758 per $1 and 10%, respectively. February 13. The CBV replaced the exchange band system and allowed the exchange rate of the bolivar to float freely. Accordingly, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category crawling band. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vietnam is the Vietnamese dong. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative The State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) quotes as the current interbank market rate the daily average exchange rate in the interbank market during the previous business day. Participating banks may not quote rates representing more than a 0.1% depreciation of the previous business day's official rate. Effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Vietnam was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. No. No. The SBV permits commercial banks and some economic entities to enter into forward and swap transactions with maturities of one to six months. The rate is set daily by the commercial banks within ranges, i.e., the percentage depreciation of the spot exchange rate is set at the time of signing the formal exchange contract. The SBV does not enter into forward or swap transactions with commercial banks. Economic entities, however, are allowed to enter into forward and swap transactions with commercial banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Vietnam maintains bilateral payments arrangements with Belarus, China, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Russia. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the SBV. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in bullion requires a license. Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold bullion and bars require a license. 1033 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1034 VIETNAM Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Individuals are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or D 5 million, whichever is smaller. Individuals are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or the equivalent of $3,000, whichever is smaller. For financial institutions, SBV permis- sion is required. For individuals, amounts in excess of D 5 million must be declared upon entering Vietnam. For individuals, amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs. For financial institutions, SBV permission is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident organizations with foreign currency revenue originating from current transactions, capital transactions, or other stated sources are entitled to open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts at authorized banks for receiving and making payments, remittances, and transfers in foreign exchange as specified by the SBV. Resident private individuals who receive foreign currency transfers from abroad through banks or who bring foreign currencies into Vietnam and have a bordergate customs certifi- cation, together with other legal sources of foreign currencies, are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at licensed banks. These accounts may be used for (1) receiving transfers from abroad for exports of goods and services or for assistance funds allowed by law; (2) receiving cash from abroad (certified by bordergate customs offices); (3) effecting transfers in foreign currency or account transfers for salaries, bonuses, or al- lowances; and (4) receiving other sources of foreign currency permitted by the SBV. The accounts may be used for (1) making payments to organizations or individuals abroad for goods and services provided to organizations and individuals in Vietnam who are allowed to invoice in foreign currency for certain goods provided and services rendered; (2) remit- ting foreign currency abroad for certain personal purposes; (3) selling foreign currency to credit institutions that are allowed to conduct foreign exchange activities; (4) withdraw- ing foreign currency in cash for savings and other stated purposes; (5) investing in foreign currency-denominated securities; and (6) other stated purposes as specified by the SBV. Depositors are entitled to earn interest in foreign currencies and to withdraw principal and interest in foreign currencies. Resident enterprises operating in specified sectors that contract with foreign organizations may open and use foreign currency accounts overseas, subject to the submission of various documents to and obtaining the approval of the SBV, to (1) facilitate the conducting of current overseas transactions; (2) provide deposit security for international bid contracts; (3) conduct clearing transactions; and (4) meet the requirements of treaties, agreements, or commitments signed with foreign countries, foreign-financed enterprises operating in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of Vietnam, and certain credit institutions. Other organizations not engaged in the above-mentioned activities but wishing to open and use an overseas foreign currency account must obtain the approval of the Prime Minister or the SBV. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted VIETNAM 1035 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident organizations operating in Vietnam and nonresident organizations or individu- als operating abroad that transfer foreign currency into the country upon entering Vietnam and hold the appropriate bordergate certification, or that carry other legal sources of foreign currency into Vietnam are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at li- censed banks. Holders of nonresident foreign currency accounts are permitted to make withdrawals in either foreign currency or dong. Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents who have domestic currency converted from foreign currency and other legal income may open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget The budget is indicative only and not binding. Financing requirements for imports Priorities are assigned to certain types of imports. Highest priority is given to critical im- ports, such as petroleum products and fertilizer. Lowest priority is given to imports of goods that compete with domestically produced goods and imports of other consumer goods. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Domestic firms are allowed to import any goods that are in line with commercial and cor- porate laws. Trading by foreign-owned firms may be carried out only in accordance with the registered business activity of the enterprise. Imports of certain products are controlled by other ministries for health, safety, and moral purposes. Prohibited imports are weapons, ammunition, explosives, and other military equipment; nonmedical drugs and toxic chemicals; reactionary and/or pornographic materials; fire- works and children's toys that detrimentally influence personality, education, social order, and safety; cigarettes (excluding limited quantities imported during personal travel); most used consumer goods; most used vehicles, including bicycles and motorcycles, and used vehicle parts; and some types of passenger vehicles. All import quotas are formally approved by the government. The Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), in coordination with the MOT, may also impose ad hoc temporary quan- tity controls. Imports of steel, cement, fertilizer, petroleum products, and sugar are subject to quantitative controls. In addition, imports of certain ceramic and granite floor tiles, glass products, newspaper and other printing paper, some types of construction steel, vegetable oils, sugar, motorcycles, and some types of cars with fewer than 16 seats require an import license from the MOT. A broad range of additional nontariff measures exists. Import tariffs range up to 50%, and there are 15 tariff rates. Most imports of machinery, equipment, and medicine are exempt from tariffs. Certain imports of foreign enterprises, incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment, are also exempt from tariffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft drinks, cosmet- ics, and automobiles. Quantitative restrictions apply to alcohol, cement, fertilizer, glass, granite and ceramic tiles, automobiles, motorcycles, paper, petroleum products, steel, sugar, and vegetable oil. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1036 VIETNAM Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts originating from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. All resident enterprises are required to sell 50% of their foreign currency earnings to banks. Nonprofit organizations are required to sell 100% of their foreign currency earnings. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Prohibited exports are weapons, ammunition, explosives, and other military equipment; antiques; nonmedical drugs and toxic chemicals; timber and timber products from natural forests; wild and/or rare native animals; and certain plants. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than the equivalent of $5 million may obtain permanent direct foreign trading rights, while those with an annual export turn- over in the range of $2 million to $5 million may obtain temporary direct foreign trading rights. Exports of rice, textiles, and garments in quota-regulated markets are subject to quotas. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval All transactions require individual authorization from the MOF. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Foreign enterprises are allowed to buy for- eign currency from commercial banks to pay for their current and other permitted transac- tions. When commercial banks are not able to meet foreign currency demand, the govern- ment sells foreign currency partially or entirely to enterprises whose foreign currency balance is met or supported by the authorities. Profit and dividend remittances are subject to a tax in the range of 3-7%, depending on the capital contribution of the foreign investor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on indicative limits for interest payments. Payments for travel Prior approval SBV permission is not required for foreign currency provided from a bank's account. For foreign currency provided from other sources, SBV permission is required. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Other payments Prior approval SBV permission is not required for foreign currency provided from a bank's account. For foreign currency provided from other sources, SBV permission is required. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds originating from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1037 Surrender requirements All resident enterprises are required to sell 50% of their foreign currency earnings to banks, except for foreign-owned enterprises without government guarantee for foreign exchange balances. Nonprofit organizations are required to sell 100% of their foreign currency earnings. Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are the same as those applied to other foreign exchange holdings. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls are imposed on all transactions in capital and money market instruments and in collective investment securities. Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 20% of an issuer's current shares, of which each organization is allowed to hold 7% and each individual 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 40% of an issuer's bonds, of which each organization may hold 10% and each individual 5%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents SBV approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents SBV approval is required. Controls on credit operations Enterprises are subject to external borrowing ceilings and the fulfillment of certain other conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1038 VIETNAM Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents For short-term credit, borrowing enterprises must observe the required conditions of the SBV. For medium- and long-term credit, enterprises may sign contracts and then register the borrowing and repayment schedules with the SBV before disbursement, based on conditions required by the SBV. Borrowing contracts of state-owned enterprises must be approved by the SBV. The borrowing enterprises must report the borrowing and repayment schedules to the SBV. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents SBV approval is required for state-owned enterprises to borrow abroad under guarantees. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Outward direct investment requires an MPI permit. Enterprises engaged in these invest- ments must open an account with a bank with foreign exchange authorization and must register such accounts with the SBV. All related transactions must go through these accounts. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the MPI for projects over $1 million or its equivalent; for projects under $1 million, authority is granted by the pro- vincial authorities concerned. The forms of foreign investment are regulated by the relevant investment laws. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors and must be leased from the state. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies The maximum amounts allowed for grants and inheritances are the equivalents of $5,000 and $10,000, respectively. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the SBV is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad SBV approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits VIETNAM 1039 Registration with the SBV is required. Permission is granted to residents only for the following: (1) borrowing to pay for imports of goods and services; (2) investment projects approved by the prime minister; (3) export projects involving manufacturing or trading; (4) borrowing under the terms of discounting the export documents; (5) borrowing to repay external loans in advance that have been guaranteed by domestic credit institutions and that meet certain criteria; and (6) borrowing by temporary guest workers in foreign countries as regulated by the SBV. The reserve requirements on domestic dong and long-term foreign currency deposits are 5%. The reserve requirement on short-term foreign currency deposits is 12%. Credit institutions' lending rates must not exceed a base rate periodically announced by the SBV plus margins specified by the SBV. The SBV has gradually increased maximum limits on open positions in individual foreign currencies to 15% from 10%. The open position limit for local currency is 15%. The aggre- gate open position limit remains unchanged at 30%. Forward and swap positions are in- cluded in the calculation of open position limits. These regulations apply to all banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Vietnam was reclassified to the category man- aged floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of April 30, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni rial. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports The exchange rate of the rial is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. No. Exchange control authority is vested with the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). On April 1,2002, the Yemeni authorities notified the IMF that the funds of listed indi- viduals and organizations associated with terrorism had been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of rial banknotes are prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Imports of rial banknotes are prohibited. 1040 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1041 Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Tariff rates range from 5% to 35%. Some imports are banned for security, health, and religious reasons. Imports of used machinery are prohibited, and imports of certain fruits and vegetables are banned during the local harvest season. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Currently, there are five tariff rates: 5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 35%. Imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports are registered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1042 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. Yes. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Short-term foreign loans by the public sector are prohibited. Approval by the Council of Ministers is required for contracting medium- and long-term foreign loans by the public sector. Yes. No. Liquidation of direct investments is free for approved and registered projects. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange deposits held at the CBY are nonremunerated. Commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations regarding currency exposure and to report their positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1043 Changes During 2001 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2002 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 1. The Yemeni authorities notified the IMF of measures taken to freeze the funds of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism in accordance with UN Secu- rity Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (Position as of May 31, 2002) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 15, 2002. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is the dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Effective January 1, 2001, the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY>—the central bank of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia—sets the exchange rate of the dinar daily, based on the value of the deutsche mark (from January 1, 2002, the euro) in the foreign exchange market on the previous day. Prior to January 1, 2001, the dinar was pegged to the deutsche mark at the rate of YUD 30 per DM 1. Authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in the interbank market at mutually agreed rates. The NBY buys and sells foreign exchange in the interbank market to service external payments and to maintain adequate foreign exchange reserves. Middle rates are calculated using the arithmetic means of the rates applied to foreign ex- change-denominated purchase and sales contracts. Up to December 31, 2001, the margin for these rates was ±0.3%, although it could be widened at the discretion of the NBY gov- ernor. Effective January 1, 2002, this margin was widened to ±2.5%. Authorized banks and foreign exchange offices are allowed to charge domestic and foreign natural persons as well as citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia who are temporar- ily employed abroad a commission of up to 0.3% on the dinar countervalue of foreign ex- change. This is calculated by applying the buying or selling exchange rate prevailing on the date of the purchase or sale. Effective February 6, 2001, the commission rate for exchange services was increased to 1% from 0.3%. n.a. If the exported goods or services were contracted, and payment made, in convertible for- eign currency, juridical persons are entitled to a refund of customs and other import duties, as well as to other incentive payments. For exports of merchandise, the calculation is based on the free Yugoslav border parity; for exports of services, the calculation is based on the amount after deduction of foreign costs. The rates applied for refund of customs duties vary for different types of economic activities, but range from 0.23% to 7.71%. An enterprise that has collected payment for exports of merchandise is entitled to a partial refund of freight paid for rail, maritime, or air transportation from the Yugoslav border to the destination at rates of 1.5% to 2.5%. Additional incentives are offered for certain agriculture and food industry exports, at rates from 1% to 6.4%. Forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted, provided they have terms of delivery from 30 days to one year and they are concluded at the rates agreed upon be- tween the contracting parties. The NBY may set maximum and minimum buying and sell- ing rates and may impose temporary restrictions or bans on such transactions. Official cover of forward operations n.r. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements n.a. 1044 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrangements Administration of control FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1045 No. Exchange control is carried out by the federal authorities and the NBY. Natural and jur id i- cal persons, entrepreneurs, and agencies and organizations are subject to these controls. The Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia specifies that the NBY, as an autonomous institution of the monetary system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the sole bank of issue, is responsible for the conduct of monetary policy, the stability of the currency, financial discipline, exerting control over banks and other financial organizations, and the performance of other operations prescribed by federal law. Based on the provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, the NBY is authorized to issue and revoke licenses to banks and other financial organizations. In addition, the NBY is authorized to adopt regulations necessary for implementing the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, and it effects exchange control over exports and imports of goods and cer- tain services carried out by residents by imposing documentation requirements. Customs authorities control the export and import of foreign currencies, local currency, securities, and gold taken out of or brought into Yugoslavia or transmitted by mail or other means. They also control the export of foreign exchange by authorized banks. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency An agreement was reached with Paris Club creditors on November 17, 2001, to reduce the debt to official bilateral creditors. Discussions are ongoing with London Club creditors to obtain debt relief on terms similar to those granted by Paris Club creditors. Yes. The NBY may export both coins and bullion. Residents other than gold producers and banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions—who are allowed to export gold bullion and gold coins, respectively—may export gold coins and bullion only with NBY permission. Exports of gold may be prohibited for balance of payments considerations. Effective July 18, 2001, domestic and foreign persons may take out banknotes up to YUD 30,000 a person in denominations of YUD 100 or smaller (previously, the limit was YUD 500 in denominations of YUD 10 or smaller). Exports of dinar banknotes by mail or other means is subject to NBY approval. The NBY reserves the right to export banknotes for purposes of sale to other banks. These exports are permitted for numismatic purposes—in which case up to three sets of all banknote denomi- nations for each approval may be exported—and to allow the testing of automatic teller machines, provided that the firms guarantee the banknotes w i ll be returned when the testing is completed or, at the latest, within three months after the bills are received. In order to take NBY-issued commemorative coins out of the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via, domestic persons require written permission from the NBY and foreign persons must complete a customs certificate and present an invoice from a licensed supplier. Foreign individuals and citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia working abroad on a temporary basis may take abroad foreign banknotes up to the amount they had declared upon entering the country. They may also take out foreign exchange from their own foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings accounts. An authorized bank may, subject to NBY approval, export foreign currency for replenish- ing its account with a foreign correspondent bank. Approval is granted if the bank in ques- tion is authorized to perform payment operations only or to perform payment operations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1046 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA On imports Domestic currency and credit transactions with foreign countries, and if the NBY has not restricted such opera- tions of the bank in question. Authorized banks are obliged to furnish the NBY with a copy of the prescribed documents as evidence of payment within 10 days of exporting foreign currency. These documents must be certified by the relevant customs authority on the date of export. Furthermore, a statement of the authorized bank's foreign account must be submitted as proof that the approved amount of foreign currency was deposited to replenish the account. Effective July 18, 2001, domestic and foreign persons may import up to YUD 30,000 a person, in denominations of YUD 100 or smaller (previously, YUD 500 a person, in de- nominations of YUD 10 or smaller). Employees of Yugoslav railways and international airlines may import the local currency that they collect from domestic and foreign persons paying for domestic goods consumed while in transit. The post office is obliged to remit mail and other shipments of dinar banknotes to a separate dinar account maintained with the Federal Foreign Exchange Inspectorate. In exceptional cases, foreign persons may import domestic banknotes in amounts and denominations larger than those specified above, provided that the banknotes were pur- chased at a foreign bank and that a purchase receipt is presented to the customs office for inspection upon entering the country. Nonresidents may import NBY-issued commemorative coins without restrictions. The NBY may import domestic banknotes that were exported for the purpose of sale to foreign banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Juridical persons and entrepreneurs may hold foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks for the following purposes: to deposit foreign exchange from exports of goods or services; for loans obtained domestically and abroad; and in connection with the sale of transport documents to domestic persons on international air, maritime, railway, and road transport, or for services rendered on international lines. Effective July 7, 2001, juridical persons and entrepreneurs may deposit in authorized banks foreign exchange proceeds from other transactions, but these transactions must be effected by June 30, 2002. Yes. The NBY may authorize juridical persons or entrepreneurs to hold a foreign exchange ac- count with a bank abroad for the following purposes: (1) to carry out capital projects abroad, up to the amount agreed upon by the investment contractor and the bank, in con- vertible foreign currency or local currency; (2) to serve as security or assurance of the proper and timely execution of specified projects if the foreign party demands it or if the foreign country's legislation requires it; (3) to pay for the operating costs of a representa- tive office or business unit established abroad to carry out business activities; and (4) to pay for costs of a domestic person engaged in rendering services in international freight and passenger traffic or insurance industries, up to the amount of the average monthly costs from the previous year, as established on the basis of accounting records. Effective November 3, 2001, domestic persons may also open these accounts for the following pur- poses, with NBY approval: (1) to collect donations up to the amount specified in the agreement on donation, and (2) to issue payment cards up to the amount specified in the agreement with the foreign issuer in accordance with relevant foreign trade regulations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1047 Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in the form of demand deposits and time deposits under the conditions prescribed by the NBY. Deposits may be held in currencies traded on the domestic foreign exchange market. Payments into the foreign currency accounts of foreign juridical and natural persons may be made as transfers or, in certain cases, as cash payments. Account holders may use the foreign exchange in their accounts to make dinar payments in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to transfer foreign exchange abroad, and to make for- eign exchange payments abroad or domestically, in accordance with existing regulations. Cash payments may be effected from the foreign exchange accounts of international hu- manitarian and other organizations, the accounts of foreign persons to be used for humani- tarian purposes, and from the accounts of foreign diplomatic representative offices and the nonresident members and employees of these offices. A bank may not cancel or return to the foreign exchange account any dinar disbursements effected from foreign currency accounts of foreign persons. Nonresidents may hold domestic currency and foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in the form of sight deposits and time deposits. The NBY may specify conditions regarding the type of funds that may be accepted as deposits. Nonresidents may deposit in domestic currency accounts with authorized banks domestic currency acquired through (1) sales of foreign exchange to authorized banks for domestic currency, (2) sales of goods and services, (3) profits earned from shares, and (4) transfers from the accounts of other nonresidents. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Juridical persons and entrepreneurs may pay in advance —provided that this option is stipu- lated in the contract —for imports of equipment and spare parts for the maintenance of capi- tal assets; raw materials and intermediate goods; spare parts; drugs and medical supplies; software; industrial property rights; know-how; movie rights; books, magazines, and pub l i- cations of a scientific, cultural, or educational character; and imports relating to domestic services. Payments through LCs are not considered prepayments. Juridical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to import prepaid goods or perform prepaid services w i th in 60 days from the date of payment. If the prepaid import does not take place within this period, the domestic person w i ll be obligated to recover the prepaid foreign exchange w i th in five days after the expiration of that period. However, the NBY may issue approval to a domestic person to make advance payments for goods and services imported in a period exceeding 60 days, provided that a written request, supported by relevant docu- ments showing that the importer was unable to import the goods or services w i th in the time period, be submitted. The extended period may not be longer than 30 days. In exceptional cases, when importing equipment or custom-manufactured spare parts for production equipment or if production of such spare parts takes longer than 90 days, the NBY may approve an extension of the import period, not to exceed the time frame speci- fied in the original import contract. A domestic person may import books, magazines, newspapers, and other publications within 12 months from the date of payment without NBY approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1048 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Some 40 tariff items are subject to quantitative and value quotas. An estimated 98.3% of all tariff items may be imported freely. Imports of used vehicles, construction and mining equipment more than six years old, and hazardous waste materials are prohibited. Licenses are required for 480 (or 1.7% of total) tariff items. Licenses are required for ar- maments (including fire arms, sport and hunting arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw materials used in explosives, military equipment, certain precious metals, some heavy metallurgy products, and goods that are subject to international agreements. Addictive drugs are subject to a special set of import licenses. The federal government does not issue specific licenses with value or volume quotas. Cer- tain kinds of goods originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are quantita- tively restricted according to the type of license. Such restrictions are mutually agreed upon in the trade agreement signed between the two governments. Effective June 1, 2001, all quotas and import licensing requirements, except for those relat- ing to specific steel products, were eliminated. In addition, a new import tariff schedule was introduced that has a maximum import duty of 30% and a simple average rate of under 10%. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly n.a. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Juridical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to collect payment for exported goods, as well as other claims, within the agreed time period, which may not exceed 60 days. The NBY may, upon request, extend this period by another 60 days at most, provided an appli- cation is made before the end of the statutory time limit. Economic activities carried out in free and customs zones are also subject to these limits. Proceeds for services rendered in air; railway; road; maritime; river; and post, telephone, and telegraph traffic must be collected within the stated time limits and in accordance with the procedures stipulated in international agreements. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Out of the total 8,552 tariff items, the free export regime (LB) is applied to 8,424 items (or 98.5%). The export license regime (D) is applied to 94 (or 1.1% of total) tariff items. Export li- censes (D) are required for armaments (including fire arms, sport and hunting arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw materials used in explosives, military equipment, historic pieces of art, certain precious metals, and goods that are subject to international agreements. Effective June 1, 2001, 35 tariff items are subject to quantitative export restrictions. A quota regime (K) is applied to exports of certain agricultural products to protect the do- mestic market. The quota regime is applied to 34 tariff items (or 0.4% of the total tariff licenses), including livestock, maize, wheat and wheat flour, soy, sugar, sunflower seeds, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1049 and raw leather. The federal government determines the volume of export license quotas annually. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Payments for travel Repayments of debt contracted for purposes of conducting foreign trade activities are not restricted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Payments for medical expenses for illnesses that cannot be successfully treated in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; for travel and costs of temporary residence of persons assigned to escort patients with severe illness; and for purchases of medical supplies, orthopedic equipment, and Pharmaceuticals that are not produced in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are permitted with approval from the government agency responsible for health, up to a limit specified by that agency. Payments of the costs of hospital treatment abroad that occur due to emergencies during temporary residence abroad are allowed up to the amount of actual costs incurred, although documentary evidence of the hospital treatment is required, together with verification by the relevant diplomatic or consular official of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Payments for transportation of the remains of deceased persons from abroad, funeral expenses, and the costs of grave maintenance abroad are permitted up to the amount of actual costs incurred, although documentary evidence is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Juridical persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to collect payment for services rendered, as well as other claims, within the agreed time period, which may not exceed 60 days. The NBY may, upon request, extend this period by another 60 days at most, provided an appli- cation is made before the end of the statutory time limit. Economic activities carried out in free and customs zones are also subject to these limits. Proceeds for services rendered in air; railway; road; maritime; river; and post, telephone, and telegraph traffic must be collected within the stated time limits and in accordance with the procedures stipulated in international agreements. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1050 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Foreign juridical persons are allowed to issue securities in the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia on the basis of reciprocity and in the manner and under the conditions laid down in the Law on Securities (the Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Nos. 26/95, 28/96, and 56/98). Securities may normally be denominated in domestic cur- rency, but, as an exception, bonds, bank bills, commercial papers, treasury bills, and certifi- cates of deposit may also be denominated in foreign currency. Issuers are allowed to sell foreign currency-denominated securities only on a foreign market unless otherwise speci- fied by federal law. Securities denominated in foreign currency may be purchased and sold for domestic currency on a secondary market. Foreign juridical persons are allowed to buy and sell foreign currency-denominated securities only through stock exchange brokers. The Federal Commission for Securities and the Financial Market (FCSFM) ensures the quality of the securities issued in a series, maintains financial discipline in securities trade, and exerts control over the legal entities performing securities operations. The FCSFM oversees the legal entities' operations in equities, long-term securities, and foreign currency-denominated securities; grants approval for the primary sale of equities, long- term securities, and foreign currency-denominated securities; and maintains a short-term securities register, recording the data required by law. Conditions for secondary trade in securities are governed by the Rules of the Stock Exchange. FCSFM approval is required for purchases of equities where a buyer acquires more than 25% of the capital stock of a shareholder company. Issuers must no t ify the FCSFM of every sale of equities where a buyer acquires more than 10%, 20%, 33%, and up to 50% of the capital stock of a shareholder company. The FCSFM may approve equity issues up to but not exceeding the capital stock. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities FCSFM approval is required for these instruments to be issued. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The Law on Securities permits trade in financial forwards and options on the stock exchange. However, such trading has not yet begun. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Foreign Credit Transaction Law (the Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia, Nos. 42/92, 24/94, and 28/96) regulates the conditions for and manner of concluding foreign credit transactions in which a credit (commercial, goods, financial, etc.) is obtained or extended. Foreign credit transactions must be registered with the NBY. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA 1051 To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Supervision over the operations of insurance companies is conducted by the relevant fed- eral government agency responsible for finance (Article 109, Law on Life and Property Insurance, Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Nos. 30/96, 57/98, and 55/99). Changes During 2001 January L The NBY began setting the exchange rate of the dinar daily, based on the value of the deutsche mark in the foreign exchange market on the previous day. February 6. The commission rate for exchange services was increased to 1% from 0.3%. July 18. The limit on the value of banknotes that domestic and foreign persons may export or import was increased to YUD 30,000 a person in denominations oi YUD 100 or smaller from YUD 500 in denominations of YUD 10 or smaller. November 17. An agreement was reached with Paris Club creditors to reduce the debt to official bilateral creditors. July 7. Juridical persons and entrepreneurs were allowed to deposit in authorized banks foreign exchange proceeds from other transactions un t il June 30, 2002. November 3. Domestic persons representing foreign persons or banks were allowed —with NBY approval —to open foreign exchange accounts abroad for maintaining the deposits required against the issuance of credit cards. Imports and import payments June L All quotas and import licensing requirements, except for those relating to specific steel products, were eliminated. Exports and export proceeds June L Thirty-five tariff items were made subject to quantitative export restrictions. June L A new import tariff schedule with a maximum import duty of 30% and a simple average of under 10% was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1052 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Changes During 2002 May 15. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF Articles of Agreement. January L The margin around the middle rate set by the NBY within which banks may trade foreign exchange was widened to ±2.5% from ±0.3%. January 1. The NBY began setting the exchange rate of the dinar daily, based on the value of the euro in the foreign exchange market on the previous day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Zambia is the Zambian kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate is market determined, and the spread between the Bank of Zam- bia's (BOZ) buying and selling rates is currently fixed at 1.6%, but may be adjusted within a range of 1-2%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assistance funds, and export earnings), the BOZ determines the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or pur- chased from the market through the dealing window. Suppliers wishing to offload currency amounts in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 onto the foreign exchange market are required to do so through the BOZ's dealing win- dow. Commercial banks are allocated foreign exchange at the marginal rate struck at the BOZ auction on behalf of suppliers. This rate is also the BOZ's buying rate. Effective June 30, 2001, the exchange rate arrangement of Zambia has been reclassified to the cate- gory managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Zambia is a member of COMESA, RIFF, and the SADC. All exchange controls have been abolished. The Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade arrangements. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require approval from the Ministry of Mines. Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared for statistical purposes. 1053 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1054 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures ZAMBIA Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. A license for the trade of petroleum products is required. The license is granted by the En- ergy Regulation Board to all oil-marketing companies that undertake to adhere to specific guidelines pertaining to fuel up l i ft and import, pricing, and storage. Licenses for statistical purposes are also required, but they are granted automatically by commercial banks. Per- sonal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought in temporarily are exempted from this requirement. Negative list There are restrictions on imports of firearms, ammunition, and ivory. Import taxes and/or tariffs MFN tariff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, there is a 5% import declaration fee. A number of products are subject to specific rates. Imports from COMESA countries are subject to a tariff equivalent to 60% of the MFN tariff. Some imports are exempt under the Investment Act. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements F inanc ing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1055 Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export declarations are required for most goods (mainly for statistical purposes), al- though they are administered routinely by commercial banks under authority delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. There are restrictions on exports of firearms, ammunition, and ivory. White maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the BOZ, subject to the requirement that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Commercial credits All borrowing must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Information on borrowing abroad must be submitted to the BOZ for statistical purposes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Prior to March 19, 2001, when this requirement was eliminated, foreign currency demand deposits were limited to 25% of total foreign currency deposits. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective March 19, 2001, the overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits of regulatory capital were reduced to 15% and 10%, respectively, from 25% and 20%. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits may be maintained within prudential limits as established in a written policy state- ment by the bank's or financial institution's board of directors. However, these exposure limits may not exceed 30% and 20% of regulatory capital, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1056 ZAMBIA Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2001 June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Zambia was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. March 19. The foreign currency demand deposit requirement was eliminated. March 19. The overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits of regulatory capital were reduced to 15% and 10%, respectively, from 25% and 20%. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits were not allowed to exceed 30% and 20% of regulatory capital, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31, 2001) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is de facto pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Z$55 per US$1, based on an arrangement between the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) and commercial banks. As a result, effective June 30,2001, the exchange rate ar- rangement of Zimbabwe was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category crawling peg. No. No. Yes. Effective December 31, 2001, the forward cover scheme was discontinued and no new contracts are being offered. However, there are some outstanding commitments under previous forward cover arrangements that the RBZ must honor. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of 17 currencies freely convertible through authorized dealers, with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Residents may convert domestic currency only to meet approved current account payments. Transactions in capital and money market instruments RBZ approval is required for residents to convert domestic currency in order to make capital payments. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Residents are not allowed to transact in foreign exchange. There are arrangements with Botswana, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Namibia, and South Africa. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Zimbabwe is a member of RIFF. Zimbabwe is a member of the COMESA clearinghouse. 1057 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1058 ZIMBABWE Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED). Authorized dealers have been empow- ered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted No person, either as principal or agent, may deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered m in ing location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of such employer or p r inc i- pal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold deal- ing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Each holder or dis- tributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with the holder of a gold deal- ing license, not later than the tenth day of every month, all gold obtained from a mining location, unless specific permission has been granted by the mining commissioner or the appropriate minister. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second- hand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed by the Ministry of Mines; these controls do not apply to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intend- ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. Resident travelers may take out up to Z$ 15,000. Resident travelers may annually take out up to the equivalent of US$500 a day for business travel and up to US$2,500 for holiday travel. Nonresident travelers may take out the trav- eler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon depar- ture, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign cur- rencies on presentation of exchange certificates. Nonresident travelers may bring in up to Z$ 15,000. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers or foreign exchange bureaus. Resident Accounts Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts (FCAs) in one of the denomi- nated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the amount of the initial investment and income or capital gains from investments in listed companies on the stock exchange or money market accounts. Gold producers and tobacco ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1059 farmers may operate FCAs, which are credited with 20% of their export receipts in foreign currencies and which they may use to purchase imports. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts may be held abroad, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency A resident may only convert funds in a domestic account into foreign currency when effecting approved current transactions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other non- resident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident individuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of au- thorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may only convert domestic currency accounts into foreign currency when emigrating and taking out their surplus earnings. Yes. Only former residents residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Authorized dealers are not permitted to effect advance payments for imports exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 without prior RBZ approval. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe may not be made in domestic currency through a local nonresident account. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures The negative list for imports includes, in addition to items restricted for health or security reasons, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewelry items. Yes. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1060 ZIMBABWE Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maxi- mum of 70% for luxuries with a surtax of 10% on finished goods, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equivalent to the sales tax imposed on goods sold domestically. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. The maximum tariff rate is 100% and applies to 18 tariff items. Maize may be imported only by the Grain Marketing Board or by others with the permis- sion of the Board. Petroleum is imported by the National Oil Company, as well as by pri- vate companies under a license issued by the Ministry of Energy. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Effective June 25, 2001, the export surrender requirement was increased to 40% from 25%, except for tobacco, which is subject to the following requirements: (1) tobacco exporters must surrender 50% of their export proceeds to banks to be allocated for the National Oil Company of Zimbabwe, Ltd. (NOCZIM), the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA), and debt-service payments of the government; (2) authorized dealers are required to set aside amounts equal to 20% of their foreign currency payments to be credited to the Tobacco Growers Pooled FCAs. This amount is allocated for a Zimbabwe Tobacco Au- thority resource committee to finance the procurement of inputs for the tobacco growers; and (3) the remaining 30% is to be sold to authorized dealers to cater for all other import requirements. Twenty percent of export receipts are paid by the RBZ to gold producers in convertible currency, which they may place in FCAs. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been received in an approved manner or will be received within three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in foreign currency transferred into Zimbabwe through the banking system, except when there are special arrangements. Yes. Yes. Export licenses are required for the following: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manu- factured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum prod- ucts; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) armaments. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, including maize, oilseeds, cheese, milk, seeds, potatoes, citrus fruits, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limits established for commercial banks are approved by the RBZ, which deals with each case on its merits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits ZIMBABWE 1061 Required for payment of commissions. The limits for freight and insurance are 30% of f.o.b. value of goods transported, but for goods that are of exceptional volume in relation to value, up to 80% of the f.o.b. value may be approved. For commission, the following limits apply: (1) confirming commission —up to 2.5% of c.i.f. value; (2) buying commission —up to 5% of f.o.b. value; (3) foreign travel agents—up to 10% of sales; and (4) selling commission —up to 7.5% of f.o.b. value. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All investment-related transfers are subject to prior RBZ approval. Specific applications are submitted to authorized dealers for approval without reference to the RBZ. A corporation may be authorized to remit by way of dividends to foreign shareholders, including dividends due to former residents of Zimbabwe, up to 100% of the corporation's net after-tax profits, provided that an application for the remittance of a dividend is submit- ted to an authorized dealer within 12 months from the end of the financial year in respect of which the dividend is payable. Yes. Yes. Effective August 25, 2001, the basic foreign exchange allowance for nonbusiness travel is the equivalent of US$2,500 a year a person regardless of age (previously US$5,000). The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is up to the equivalent of US$500 a day. In practice, owing to the foreign exchange shortage, foreign exchange is not readily available for foreign travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittance of pensions of former residents is guaranteed under the constitution. With RBZ approval, foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secon- dary school level for certain diploma and degree courses. For medical treatment, the limit is the equivalent of US$20,000 a trip for the patient and one companion. A travel allowance up to the equivalent of US$250 a person a day may be allowed. For studies abroad, the limit is the equivalent of US$50,000 a year, and the annual limit is the equivalent of US$2,000 for alimony and child support payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Foreign workers' wages Expatriate workers may remit their monthly salaries, subject to RBZ approval. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Amounts of up to one-third of gross salary may be remitted. Yes. Yes. Credit cards may be used abroad for holiday travel, up to the equivalent of US$2,500, and for business travel, up to the limits set for those transactions. Yes. Yes. The annual limit for subscriptions for a company is the equivalent of US$20,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1062 ZIMBABWE Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through the banking system and sold to authorized banks within 60 days after being credited to FCAs. Restrictions on use of funds Only surplus funds are required to be repatriated through the banking system. Controls on capital transactions Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) us- ing currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. The initial invest- ment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted without restriction. For- eign investors may also subscribe for up to 35% of primary issues of bonds and stocks. Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase bonds and stocks from the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresident investors are allowed to sell their bonds and stocks in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4%. For investments prior to May 1993, under current legislation, disinvestment proceeds on the original amount of the investment qualify for remittances, but any capital appreciation that arises from revaluation of the investment goes to the "blocked funds," which are then converted into six-year bonds at a 4% interest rate and a variable ratio of remittances al- lowed, depending on the discount offered. However, if the amount of capital appreciation is small, it may usually be repatriated without restriction. For investments made after May 1, 1993, current legislation dictates that proceeds from any disinvestment may be remitted without restriction. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1063 Yes. Yes. Yes. No derivative transactions with foreign currency implications are permitted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents The limit on foreign borrowing without prior approval of the External Loans Coordination Committee is the equivalent of US$5 million. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects are permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are not permitted to provide credit to nonresidents without RBZ approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment These investments require RBZ and MOFED approval on a case-by-case basis. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Direct foreign investment in various sectors is subject to the prior approval of the Zim- babwe Investment Center, normally with the following conditions: (1) up to 100% for- eign ownership is allowed in the following priority sectors: manufacturing, mining, quarry and mineral exploration, and development of hotels for tourism; (2) up to 70% foreign shareholding is permitted in specialized services such as management consultancy and construction; and (3) a maximum of 35% foreign ownership (reserved sector list) is al- lowed in selected sectors where foreign investors wishing to participate may only do so in joint-venture partnership with Zimbabwean firms or individuals. The reserved sector list is as follows: primary production of food and cash crops; primary horticulture; game, w i ld l ife ranching, and livestock; forestry; fishing and fish farming; poultry farming; em- ployment agencies; estate agencies; valet services; armaments manufacture, marketing, and distribution; public water provision for domestic and industrial purposes; rail operations; grain mill products; bakery products; sugar products; tobacco packaging and grading; and tobacco products. All foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since May 1, 1993, may be repatriated. In all cases, specific ap- plications must be submitted to the RBZ in respect of repatriation of capital. Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equity is allowed for in- vestments effected before 1979. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1064 ZIMBABWE Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000 a person or US$2,000 a family. In exceptional cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. All those applying for emigrant status are required to liquidate their assets within six months after emigrating and invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwe government external bonds. Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred, provided that the funds that were used in betting were originally transferred into Zimbabwe in foreign currency. The first prize may not be remitted. Borrowing abroad is subject to exchange control rules and regulations and the approval of the External Loans Coordination Committee. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of accounts abroad is subject to exchange control rules and regulations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is subject to exchange control rules and regulations, and is usually not permitted. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to exchange control rules and regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange There are rules that allow for differential treatment of local exporters and companies operating in the export-processing zone. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls apply to mortgage rates of building societies. Investment abroad by local banks in offshore entities is subject to exchange control approval. Acquiring equity by nonresidents in local banks listed on the ZSE is subject to the ZSE's rules and regulations. For banks not listed in the ZSE, these are subject to exchange control approval. Authorized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure limits. The net open position limits of foreign exchange dealers is the equivalent of US$2 million or 10% of their capital base, and their capital requirements are 5% (core/Tier I) and 10% (total capital). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1065 On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Local institutional investors are not permitted to invest in securities registered offshore. Yes. Yes. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 40% of the total equity of the com- pany, with a limit of 10% for one investor. These limits are in addition to any existing foreign shareholdings in the companies that existed prior to May 1, 1993. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2001 Exchange arrangement June 30. The exchange rate arrangement of Zimbabwe was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category crawling peg. December 31. The forward cover scheme was discontinued. Exports and export proceeds June 25. The surrender requirement for exports other than tobacco was increased to 40% from 25%. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers August 25. The basic foreign exchange allowance for nonbusiness travel was reduced to the equivalent of US$2,500 a year a person regardless of age from US$5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy1 " 1067 Other Eu ro area4' 5 Austria Belgium Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Spain Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Exchange arrangements with no separate legal tender (40) Currency board arrangements (8) Other conventional fixed peg arrangements (including de facto peg arrangements under managed floating) (41) Pegged exchange rates w i th in horizontal bands (S)11 Crawling pegs (4) Exchange rate anchor Monetary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Inf la t ion targeting framework IMF-supported or other monetary program Another currency as legal tender ECCU3 Ecuador* Antigua and El Salvador6 Barbuda Kiribati Dominica Marshall Islands Grenada Micronesia, Fed. St. Kitts and States of Nevis Palau St. Lucia Panama St. Vincent San Marino and the Grenadines Argentina* Bosnia and Herzegovina* Brunei Dams sal am Bulgaria* China— Hong Kong SAR Djibouti* Estonia* Lithuania* Against a single currency (31) Aruba Bahamas, The7 Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh Barbados Belize Bhutan Cape Verde Chinat8 Comoros9 Eritrea Iran, I.R. of7- 8 Jordan*8 Lebanon8 Lesotho* Macedonia, FYR*8 Malaysia Maldives8 Namibia Nepal Netherlands Antilles Oman Qatar8- 10 Saudi Arabia8- 10 Sudan8 Suriname7' 8 Swaziland Syrian Arab Rep.7 Turkmenistan8 United Arab Emirates8- 10 Zimbabwe8 W i th in a cooperative arrangement ERM II (1) Denmark Bolivia* Costa Rica8 Nicaragua* Solomon Islands8 CFA franc zone WAEMU CAEMC Benin* Cameroon* Burkina Central Faso* African Cote Rep.* d'lvoire* Chad* Guinea- Congo, Bissau* Rep. of* Mali* Equatorial Niger* Guinea Senegal* Gabon* Togo Chinat8 Against a composite (10) Botswana7 Fiji Kuwait Latvia* Libya Malta Morocco Samoa Seychelles Vanuatu Other band arrangemen ts (4) Cyprus Egypt7 Hungary! Tonga Hungary! ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1068 Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Belarus Honduras* Israel t Exchange rate anchor Romania*8 Uruguay* Venezuela, Rep. Bolivariana de Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Exchange rates w i th in crawling bands (6)12 Managed floating with no pre- announced path for exchange rate (42) Independently floating (40) Monetary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Ghana* Guinea* Guyana* Indonesia* Jamaica*8 Mauritius Mongolia* Sao Tome* and Principe* Slovenia Sri Lanka* Tunisia Gambia, The* Malawi* Peru*t Philippines* Sierra Leone* Turkey* Yemen, Rep. of* Inflation targeting framework Israelf Thailand* Australia Brazil* Canada Chile7 Colombia* Czech Rep. Iceland Korea Mexico New Zealand Norway Poland South Africa Sweden United Kingdom IMF-supported or other monetary program Other Azerbaijan Cambodia7 Croatia Ethiopia Kazakhstan Kenya Kyrgyz Rep. Lao PDR7 Mauritania Nigeria Pakistan Russian Federation Rwanda Trinidad and Tobago Ukraine Vietnam Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep. of Zambia Albania Armenia Congo, Dem. Rep. of Georgia Madagascar Moldova Mozambique Tajikistan Tanzania Uganda Algeria4 Angola4 Burundi4 Dominican Rep.4> 7 Guatemala4 India4 Iraq13 Myanmar4' 7- 8 Paraguay4 Singapore4 Slovak Rep. 4 Uzbekistan4' 7 Afghanistan, I.S. of*. 13 Haiti4 Japan4 Liberia4 Papua New Guinea4 Somalia7- 13 Switzerland4 United States4 Source: IMF staff reports. 1 Data are accurate as of December 31, 2001. The following countries were reclassified subsequent to that date: Argentina, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sao Tome* and Principe, Sudan, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela. 2 An asterisk (*) indicates that the country has an IMF-supported or other monetary program. A dagger (t) indicates that the country adopts more than one nominal anchor in conducting monetary policy (it should be noted, however, that it would not be possible, for practical reasons, to infer from this table which nominal anchor plays the principal role in conducting monetary policy). 3 These countries have a currency board arrangement. 4 The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. 5 Until they are withdrawn in the first quarter of 2002, national currencies will retain their status as legal tender within their national territories. 6 For El Salvador, the printing of new colones, the domestic currency, is prohibited, but the existing stock of colones will continue to circulate, along with the U.S. dollar as legal tender until all co!6n notes wear out physically. 7 Member maintains an exchange arrangement involving more than one market. The arrangement shown is that maintained in the major market. 8 The regime operating de facto in the country is different from its de jure regime. 9 Comoros has the same arrangement with the French Treasury as the CFA franc zone countries do. 10 Exchange rates are determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to the SDR, within margins of up to ±7.25%. However, because of the maintenance of a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, these margins are not always observed. 11 The band width for these countries is Cyprus (±2.25%), Denmark (±2.25%), Egypt (±3%), Hungary (±15%), and Tonga (±5%). 12 The band width for these countries is Belarus (±5%), Honduras (±7%), Israel (±22%), Romania (unannounced), Uruguay (±3%), and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela (±7.5%). 13 Insufficient information on the country is available for classification. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix I: Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 1069 Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks The classification system is based on the members' actual, de facto, regimes that may differ from their officially announced arrangements. The scheme ranks exchange rate regimes on the basis of the degree of flexibility of the arrangement. It distinguishes between the more rigid forms of pegged regimes (such as currency board arrangements); other conventional fixed peg regimes against a single currency or a basket of currencies; exchange rate bands around a fixed peg; crawling peg arrangements; and exchange rate bands around crawling pegs, in order to help assess the implications of the choice of exchange rate regime for the degree of independence of monetary policy. This includes a category to distinguish the exchange arrangements of those countries that have no separate legal tender. The system presents members' exchange rate regimes against alternative monetary policy frameworks with the intention of using both criteria as a way of providing greater transparency in the classification scheme and to illustrate that different forms of exchange rate regimes could be consistent with similar monetary frameworks. The categories are explained in the compilation guide. Members' exchange rate regimes are presented against alternative monetary policy frameworks in order to present the role of the exchange rate in broad economic policy and help identify potential sources of inconsistency in the monetary-exchange rate policy mix. The monetary policy frameworks listed are as follows. Exchange rate anchor The monetary authority stands ready to buy or sell foreign exchange at given quoted rates to maintain the exchange rate at its preannounced level or range (the exchange rate serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy). These regimes cover exchange rate regimes with no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, fixed pegs with or without bands, and crawling pegs with or without bands, where the rate of crawl is set in a forward-looking manner. Monetary aggregate target The monetary authority uses its instruments to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate (reserve money, M l, M2, etc.) and the targeted aggregate becomes the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation targeting framework Involves the public announcement of medium-term numerical targets for inflation with an institutional commitment by the monetary authority to achieve these targets. Additional key features include increased communication with the public and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary policymakers and increased accountability of the central bank for obtaining its inflation objectives. Monetary policy decisions are guided by the deviation of forecasts of future inflation from the announced inflation target, with the inflation forecast acting (implicitly or explicitly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. IMF-supported or other monetary program Involves implementation of monetary and exchange rate policy within the confines of a framework that establishes floors for international reserves and ceilings for net domestic assets of the central bank. As the ceiling on net domestic assets limits increases in reserve money through central bank operations, indicative targets for reserve money may be appended to this system. Other The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on T a o t l u n m e b r o f n u o c i r t s e w t i h t h i s f a e t u r e A f n a h g i s t n a , I . S . o f A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A o g n l a A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a T e h B a h a m s a B h a r n a i , K i o d g n m o f B s e d a g n a l h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B e l g i u m B e i l e z B n e i n B u h t n a B o i l v i a B o s n i a d n a H e r v o g e z i a n Status under I MF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le V I II 156 30 • • A r t ic le X IV • • • • • • Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender 40 7 39 0 e e • Currency board arrangement • Conventional pegged arrangement + + + + + + + Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands 5 4 5 C raw l ing peg • Craw l ing band • Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate 44 42 • • • • Independently floating • • • • Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates 10 6 • Mu l t ip le exchange rates • • Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements 65 62 • • — • • • • • • • - • • • • Payments arrears • • • • — Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers 101 • • • • • • • • • • • • Controls on proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements 104 79 • • • • • - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Surrender requirements • • • • • Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities 131 110 - 101 83 107 113 — Money market instruments Collective investment securities — • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • Derivatives and other instruments • • • • • • • • • • • Commercial credits • Financial credits — Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities 96 147 59 135 91 • • • • • • • • • • • Direct investments • Liquidation of direct investments • • • • • • • • • Real estate transactions — Personal capital transactions — • - • Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions 157 Institutional investors 86 - • • - • • • • • - • • • • For key and footnotes, see page 1076. 1070 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 1071 B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B r e n u i D a r u a s s l a m B a g u l i r a B u r k i a n F s a o B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R b u p e i l c C d a h C h l i e C a n h i , P p o e l e s ' R p e . o f H g n o K S g n o R A C o l o m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o , D e m . R p e . o f t e h C o g n o , R b u p e i l c o f C o s t a R i a c C e 6 t d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S o d a v a l r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E r t i r a e E s t n o i a E t h i p o i a • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • A • • • • • T + + + + * * • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — - • • • • • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • • — — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - - • • • - - • • • — • • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1072 Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on d n a n F i l F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G o e r a g i G e r m y n a G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G a e n u i G a e n u i - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H a g n u r y I d n a e c l I s e n o d n i a r I n a , I . R . o f r I e l d n a r s I e a l Status under I MF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le VIII • • • A r t ic le X IV • • Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender e e • e e 0 • e e Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement T Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands * C raw l ing peg Craw l ing band • • Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate • • • • • • • • Independently floating • • • • Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements — — • - Payments arrears • • • • • - Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers • • • • • • • • • • Controls on proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Surrender requirements • • • • • Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities • • • • • • • • • — • • • • — • - • - • - • • • • • • Money market instruments • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • • Collective investment securities • • • - • • • • • Derivatives and other instruments • • • • - • • • • • • • Commercial credits • • • • — • — • • • Financial credits • • • • • • Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities • • • • • • • • • • • • • Direct investments • • • Liquidation of direct investments • • - • • • • • — • • Real estate transactions • — • • • • • — • • • • • Personal capital transactions — — • • • • — • Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions • • • • • • Institutional investors • — — • • • • — • • • — • For key and footnotes, see page 1076. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 1073 a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K h k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e , R b u p e i l c o f K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L a t v i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a L e x u m u o b r g M a n o d e c a i , f m r . Y o g u s l v a R p e . M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s , R p e . o f t e h M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M o c x e i M i c r s e n o i a , F d e . S t s e a t o f M a v o d o l M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m b i e u q M n a y m a r N a m i b i a • • • • • • • • e • • • • + T • + + T + + + T T + • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • — • — • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • # • • • • • • • # • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • - • - - • - — • • • • - • • • • • • - • - • • - - • • • • - - • - • • • - • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1074 Appendix II: Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on N a p e l N e h e t l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a l u a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n P a r y a u g a 5 « P h i l i p p i s e n d n a o P l o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a t e h G r s e n d a n e i Status under I MF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le VIII A r t ic le X IV • Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender e • • • e 0 0 0 Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement + + + + Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands C raw l ing peg • Craw l ing band • Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate • • • • • Independently floating • • • • • • Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates • • Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements • • - • • • • Payments arrears • • • • • • • Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers • • • • • • • • • • Controls on proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements • • • • • • • • • Surrender requirements • • • • Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities • • • Money market instruments • • • • • • • • • Collective investment securities - - • • • • • • Derivatives and other instruments • • • • • • • • Commercial credits • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Financial credits • • • • Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities • • • Direct investments • • • • • • • • • Liquidation of direct investments • • • • Real estate transactions • • • • • • • • Personal capital transactions • • • • • • • • • • • — Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • — For key and footnotes, see page 1076. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 1075 S a m a o S n a M a i r o n & 5 c £ 1 1 & CO S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e k a v o S l R b u p e i l c n e v o S l i a o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t s e a t 1 • • • • • • • • © • T + T + + + + + * • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • — • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - • • • - • • • • — • • • • • • • • • - • • • • • - • • • - • • • - • • • • • • • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1076 U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a , R p e . B o i l a v i r a n a o f V i e t a n m Y e m n e , R b u p e i l c o f Y o g u s l a v a i , F d e . R p e . O f Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e Status under I MF Articles of Agreement Status under I MF Articles of Agreement A r t ic le VIII A r t ic le VIII A r t ic le X IV A r t ic le X IV • • • • • • • • • Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands horizontal bands Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing peg Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Craw l ing band Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating Independently floating T + • • • • • • • Exchange rate structure Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates • Arrangements for payments and receipts Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears Payments arrears • • • • • • Controls on payments for invisible Controls on payments for invisible Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers transactions and current transfers transactions and current transfers Controls on proceeds from exports and/or Controls on proceeds from exports and/or Controls on proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions invisible transactions invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Repatriation requirements Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Surrender requirements Surrender requirements • • • • • • • • • • Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Capital transactions Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Controls on: Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Capital market securities Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Money market instruments Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Commercial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities financial backup facilities Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Liquidation of direct investments Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other Commercial banks and other credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions credit institutions Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors Institutional investors • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • m • • • • • • • • • - • • • • — — • • - • • • • • • - • • - • • • Key and Footnotes • Indicates that the spec if ied practice is a feature of the exchange system. — Indicates that data were not ava i lab le at time of pub l ica t ion. • Indicates that the spec if ic practice is not regulated. • Indicates that member uses the currency of another member as legal tender. 0 Indicates that member participates in the E C C U. A Indicates that the arrangement was pegged to the French franc through December 3 1 , 2 0 0 1. Indicates that member participates in the euro area. Indicates that flexibility is l im i t ed to a s ing le currency. Indicates that the composite is a basket of other currencies. Indicates that the country participates in the E R M II of the E M S. Indicates other band arrangements. © + T <• * 1 U s u a l ly December 3 1 , 2 0 0 1. 2 The l i s t ing includes H o ng K o ng S A R, A r u b a, and the Nether­ lands A n t i l l e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations 1077 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1078 APPENDIX III Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1079 Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1080 APPENDIX III Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Other payments Prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1081 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1082 APPENDIX III Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1083 Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1084 APPENDIX III Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Changes During 2001 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX III 1085 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 